[2020] FWCA 2294

DECISION
Fair Work Act 2009 
s.185—Enterprise agreement

FairWork 

Commission 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd T/A 360 Personnel Pty Ltd
(AG2020/1072)

360 PERSONNEL PTY LTD ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT 2020 - 2024
Building, metal and civil construction industries

DEPUTY PRESIDENT SAUNDERS

NEWCASTLE, 1 MAY 2020

Application for approval of the 360 Personnel Pty Ltd Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024.

[1]
An application has been made for approval of an enterprise agreement known as the
360 Personnel Pty Ltd Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 (Agreement). The application was 
made pursuant to section 185 of the Fair Work  Act 2009 (Act). The Agreement is a single 
enterprise agreement.

I  am  satisfied  that  each  of  the  requirements  of  sections  186,  187  and  188  as  are 

[2]
relevant to this application for approval have been met.

The Agreement is approved and, in accordance with section 54 of the Act, will operate 

[3]
from 8 May 2020. The nominal expiry date of the Agreement is 30 April 2024.

DEPUTY PRESIDENT

Printed by authority of the Commonwealth Government Printer

<AE507950  PR718755>

1

360 PERSONNEL PTY LTD 
ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT 

2020-2024 

Contents 

Page 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

1. 
2. 
3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 
9. 

Classification 
Rates of Pay 
Superannuation 
Payment of Wages 
Site Specific Payments 
Over Agreement Payments 
Leading Hand Allowance 

Engagement of Employees 
Full-Time or Part-Time  Employment 
Casual  Employment 
Flexibility Arrangements 
Stand Down of Employees 
Employee Performance Management 

Title 
Definitions 
Policies, Awards and Agreements 
3.1 
Duration of Agreement 
3.2 
Application 
3.3 
Scope 
3.4 
Relationship to other Awards and Agreements 
3.5 
No  Extra Claims Commitment 
Contract of Employment 
4.1 
4.2 
4.3 
4.4 
4.5 
4.6 
Remuneration 
5.1 
5.2 
5.3 
5.4 
5.5 
5.6 
5.7 
Travel Arrangements 
6.1 
Daily Fares 
6.2 
Travel Outside Radial Areas 
6.3 
Travel To and  From  Distant Work 
6.4 
Accommodation and Board During Distant Work 
Hours of Work 
7.1 
7.2 
7.3 
7.4 
7.5 
7.6 
7.7 
7.8 
7.9 
Inclement Weather Procedure 
Leave 
9.1 
9.2 
9.3 
9.4 
9.5 
9.6 
9.7 

Ordinary Hours 
Rostered Days Off 
Overtime 
Work on  Weekends and  Public Holidays 
Ordinary Time Meal and  Rest Breaks 
Overtime and Weekend Crib  Breaks 
Rest Period  Before or After Overtime 
Call  Back 
Shift Work 

Accrual of Entitlements/ Continuity of Service 
Annual  Leave 
Annual  Leave Loading 
Personal/ Carer's Leave 
Compassionate Leave 
Notice of Absence 
Immediate Family or Household 

4 
4 
5 
5 
5 
5 
6 
6 
6 
6 
7 
7 
8 
9 
9 
10 
10 
10 
10 
11 
11 
11 
12 
12 
12 
13 
13 
14 
14 
14 
15 
15 
16 
16 
17 
17 
17 
18 
19 
20 
20 
20 
21 
22 
22 
23 
24 

2 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

Contents 

10.  Additional Leave 

Community Service Activities 
Absence While Engaging in  a Community Service Activity 
Notice Regarding Absence 
Payment to Employees (Other than Casual) on Jury Service 
Leave to Deal with  Family and Domestic Violence 
Parental Leave 
Long Service Leave 
Leave Without Pay 
Public Holidays 

10.1 
10.2 
10.3 
10.4 
10.5 
10.6 
10.7 
10.8 
10.9 
Insurance 
11.1  Workers Compensation 

11. 

12.  Termination 

12.1 
12.2 
12.3 
12.4 
12.5 

Notice of Termination (Daily Hire Employees) 
Notice of Termination (Casual  Employees) 
Abandonment of Employment 
Summary Dismissal 
Consultation Arrangements 

13.  Redundancy/ Severance 
14.  Work Health and Safety 
15.  Drugs and Alcohol 
16.  Equipment and Apparel 

16.1 
16.2 
16.3 

Protective and Working Clothing 
Supply of Vehicles 
Company Owned Tools and  Equipment 

17.  Anti-Discrimination 
18.  Settlement of Disputes 
19.  Endorsement of Agreement 

Appendix 1 - Agreement Classifications 
Appendix 2  - Wage  Rates 

Page 

24 
24 
24 
24 
25 
25 
27 
27 
28 
28 
29 
29 
29 
29 
29 
30 
30 
31 
33 
34 
34 
34 
34 
35 
35 
35 
36 
38 

39 
40 

3 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

1. 

TITLE 

This Agreement shall be known as the 360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

2. 

DEFINITIONS 

In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears: 

2.1 

2.2 

2.3 

2.4 

2.5 

2.6 

2.7 

2.8 

2.9 

2.10 

2.11 

The  "Agreement"  means  the  360  Personnel  Pty  Ltd  Enterprise  Agreement  2020  -
2024. 

The  "Company" means 360 Personnel  Pty Ltd. 

"Construction  work"  means  all  work  performed  in  connection  with  the  construction, 
alteration,  extension,  restoration,  maintenance,  repair,  demolition  or  dismantling of 
buildings,  structures or works that form,  or are to form,  part of land,  whether  or  not 
the  buildings,  structures  or  works  are  permanent  in,  or  in  connection  with  the 
operations of the Company. 

The "FW Act" means the Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth). 

"FWC"  means Fair Work Commission. 

The "FW Regulations" means regulations made under the FW Act. 

"Workplace  Right"  has  the  same  meaning as  that contained  in  Section  341 of the 
FW Act as far as this applies to Employees. 

"Adverse Action"  has the same  meaning as that contained  in  Section  342 of the FW 
Act as far as this applies to Employees. 

"Superannuation  legislation"  means the Superannuation  Guarantee (Administration) 
Act  1992  (Cth),  the  Superannuation  Guarantee  Charge  Act  1992  (Cth),  the 
Superannuation  Industry  (Supervision)  Act  1993  (Cth)  and  the  Superannuation 
(Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (Cth), 

The  "National  Employment  Standards"  (NES)  are  minimum  standards  applying  to 
employment conditions. 

"Distant Work"  means work at locations where it is not reasonable or possible for the 
Employee  to  return  to  their  normal  place  of  residence,  or  to  any  separately 
maintained residence, each  night. 

2.12 

"Employee" means a person: 

employed  by the Company; and 

(a) 
(b)  who performs work in any State or Territory in Australia; and 
(c) 

who  performs  work  in  accordance  with  the  classifications  covered  by  this 
Agreement, and 
has the meaning in the FW Act. 

(d) 

4 

2.13 

2.14 

2.15 

2.16 

2.17 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

"The Company" has the same meaning as  "Employer" as defined in the FW Act. 

"Employee Representative" means a person: 

(a)  who  is an  Employee; or 
(b) 

chosen  and appointed by an  individual  Employee or a number of Employees to 
represent them in  relation to the terms of this Agreement; or 
who acts on the instructions of the Employee or Employees. 

(c) 

"Parties" to this Agreement shall  mean the Company and  the Company's  Employees 
engaged on work classified in this Agreement. 

"Building  Code  2016"  means  the  Code  for  the  Tendering  and  Performance  of 
Building  Work  2016,  enacted  in  accordance  with  the  Building  and  Construction 
Industry (Improving Productivity) Act 2016. 

"Daily Hire  Employee"  - is an  Employee engaged on  a full-time or part-time basis and 
is subject to one day's notice of termination, or a payment of one day's pay in  lieu  of 
notice  and  who  works  38  ordinary  hours  per  week  as  a full-time  Employee  or  who 
works on  average of fewer than 38 ordinary hours per week as a part-time Employee. 

2.18 

"Leading  Hand"  -
charge of another Employee or other Employees. 

is  an  Employee  who  is  required  to  supervise  or  direct  or  be  in 

3. 

3.1 

3.1.1 

3.1.2 

3.1.3 

POLICIES, AWARDS AND AGREEMENTS 

Duration of Agreement 

This  Agreement  shall  come  into  operation  seven  (7)  days  after  the  Agreement  is 
approved by FWC  under the FW Act. 

The Agreement has a nominal  expiry date of four (4)  calendar years from the date of 
approval by the FWC. 

The  Agreement shall  continue  to  apply  beyond  its  expiration  date  until  it ceases  to 
operate by virtue of the operation of Sections 58, 224 or 227 of the FW Act. 

3.2 

Application 

3.2.1 

This  Agreement  deals  with  matters  pertaining  to  the  employment  relationship 
between: 

(a) 
(b) 

the Company; and, 
Employees  of  the  Company  who  are  engaged  in  any  of  the  callings  or 
classifications defined by the Appendices of this Agreement. 

3.3 

Scope 

3.3.1 

This  Agreement  shall  apply  where  the  Company  undertakes  construction  work, 
including maintenance work. 

5 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

3.4 

Relationship to other Awards and Agreements 

3.4.1 

3.4.2 

3.4.3 

This  Agreement  operates  subject to  Chapter  2  of the  FW  Act  to  provide  terms  and 
conditions for Company Employees covered by the Agreement. 

The  relevant  Award  for  purposes  of  applying  the  Better-Off-Overall  test  to  this 
Agreement  is  the  Building  and  Construction  General  On-site  Award  2010.  The 
provisions of this Award  are  expressly  incorporated  into the terms and  conditions  of 
this Agreement. 

Where modern award conditions have  been modified by the terms of this Agreement, 
remuneration  and  other  conditions  of this  Agreement  have  been  set  at  a  level  to 
ensure that persons employed  under this Agreement,  are  better-off-overall than they 
would  otherwise  be  under  the  modern  award.  However,  where  the  Agreement  is 
silent on  the  reference  award  provisions, then  those  modern  award  provisions  shall 
apply. 

3.4.4 

This Agreement shall be read  in  conjunction with the NES. 

3.4.5 

Where  this  Agreement  gives  an  Employee  an  entitlement  that  is  the  same  as  an 
entitlement under the NES: 

(a) 

(b) 

those terms  operate  in  parallel  with  the  Employee's  NES  entitlement,  but not 
so as to give the Employee a double benefit; and 
the provisions of the NES  relating to the NES  entitlement apply, as a minimum 
standard, to the Agreement entitlement. 

3.5 

No Extra Claims Commitment 

3.5.1 

3.5.2 

3.5.3 

4. 

4.1 

4.1.1 

The  Employees  covered  by  this  Agreement  undertake that they will  not  pursue  any 
further claims against the Company during its period of operation. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of this clause, any party to this Agreement may apply 
to the  FWC  to vary the Agreement  in  accordance with  the  relevant  provisions  of the 
FW Act.  However, such variations shall be compliant with the Building Code 2016. 

If,  subsequent  to  approval  of  this  Agreement  by  the  FWC,  any  clause  of  this 
Agreement is  deemed inconsistent with the Building Code 2016, the parties agree to 
vary the Agreement pursuant to the FW Act to address any inconsistency. 

CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT 

Engagement of Employees 

Employees  under  this  Agreement  shall  be  employed 
categories: 

in  one  of  the  following 

Full-time or Part-time Daily Hire Employees; 

(a) 
(b)  Casual  Employees 

6 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

4.1.2 

At the time of engagement, the Company and the Employee will agree in writing: 

• 

• 

• 
• 

Whether the  Employee  is to  be  employed  as  a daily hire full-time  or  part-time 
Employee or casual  Employee; 
Upon the  hours to be  worked  by the  Employee, the days  upon which the hours 
will  be worked and commencing times for the work; 
Upon the classification applying to the work to be performed; 
Upon the period of employment. 

Employment  is  subject  to  a  probation  period  of  three  (3)  months  which  may  be 
extended by a further three (3) months at the discretion of the Company. 

All  Employees  shall  be  required  to  supply  personal  details  for  record  keeping  and 
other purposes pertaining to their employment. 

An  Employee  that  has  knowingly  provided  false  or  misleading  personal  details  and 
other information or false or misleading information may be summarily dismissed. 

4.1.3 

4.1.4 

4.1.5 

4.2 

Full-Time or Part-Time Employment 

4.2.1 

4.2.2 

All  full-time  Employees engaged  in  building and  construction  work shall  be  employed 
on a daily hire basis and shall work 38 hours per week. 

Part-time  Employees  shall  work  fewer  than  38  hours  per  week  and  will  have 
reasonably predticable hours of work. 

4.3 

Casual Employment 

4.3.1 

4.3.2 

4.3.3 

4.3.4 

4.3.5 

A casual  Employee is one engaged  and  paid  in  accordance with the provisions of this 
clause. 

A  casual  Employee  shall  be  paid  a  25%  loading  on  the  applicable  hourly  rate  in 
accordance  with  the  calculation  as  prescribed  in  Table  B  in  Appendix  2  of  this 
Agreement for the  Employee's  classification,  for  each  hour of ordinary duty worked. 
This rate shall not attract any premium or penalty. 

Subject  to  the  provisions  of  clause  7.1.2  of  this  Agreement,  where  a  casual 
Employee  performs overtime work, weekend work or public holiday work, the penalty 
payment applicable shall be  calculated using the rates set out in Table A of Appendix 
2  of  this  Agreement  and  applying  the  following  penalty  rates  in  accordance  with 
clause 7.3 and 7.4 of this Agreement as appropriate: 

Time and a half - 175% of the ordinary hourly rate; 

(a) 
(b)  Double time - 225% of the ordinary hourly rate; 
(c) 

Double time and a half - 275% of the ordinary hourly rate. 

On  each  occasion  a casual  Employee  is  required  to attend work,  the  Employee  shall 
be  entitled  to  payment  for  a  minimum  of  four  (4)  hours'  work,  plus  any  relevant 
allowances for time actually worked. 

A casual  Employee  shall  be  entitled  to  all  of the  applicable  rates  and  conditions  of 
employment prescribed  by this Agreement except payment for annual  leave,  annual 
leave  loading,  personal  /  carers  leave, jury service,  public  holidays  not worked  and 
redundancy. 

7 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

4.3.6 

4.3.7 

A casual  Employee, other than an  irregular casual  Employee, who  has been  engaged 
by  the  Company  for  a  sequence  or  periods  of  employment  under  this  Agreement 
during  a  period  of  six  months,  has  the  right  to  elect  to  have  their  contract  of 
employment converted  to full-time  or  part-time  employment if the  employment  is  to 
continue beyond the conversion  process. The  Company must give notice in  writing to 
the  Employee  of the  provisions of this clause  within four (4)  weeks  of the  Employee 
having obtained six  (6) months service. 

A casual  Employee  who  has a right to elect may give four weeks'  notice  in  writing to 
the  Company that they seek to elect to convert their contract of employment to full 
time  or  part-time  employment,  and  within  four  weeks'  of receiving  such  notice  the 
The  Company  must  not 
Company  must  consent  to  or  refuse  the  election. 
unreasonably refuse any such election. 

4.3.8 

A casual  Employee who does not elect to convert their contract of employment to full 
time  or  part-time  employment  is  deemed  to  have  elected  against  any  such 
conversion. 

4.4 

Flexibility Arrangements 

4.4.1 

A  Company  and  Employee  covered  by  this  Agreement  may  agree  to  make  an 
individual flexibility arrangement to vary the effect of the terms of the Agreement if: 

(a) 

The Agreement deals with 1 or more of the following matters: 

Arrangements about when work is performed; 

(i) 
(ii)  Overtime rates; 
(iii)  Penalty rates; 
(iv)  Allowances; 
(v) 

Leave  loading; and 

(b) 

(c) 

The  arrangement meets the  genuine  needs  of the  Company and  Employee  in 
relation to 1 or more of the matters mentioned in Clause 4.5.1(a); and 
The arrangement is genuinely agreed to by the Company and the Employee. 

4.4.2 

The Company must ensure that the terms of the individual flexibility arrangement: 

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

Are about permitted matters under section 172 of the FW Act; and 
Are  not unlawful terms under section 194 of the FW Act;  and 
Result  in  the  Employee  being better off overall than the  Employee  would  be  if 
no arrangement was  made. 

4.4.3 

The Company must ensure that the individual flexibility arrangement: 

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

(d) 

Is  in  writing; and 
Includes the name of the Company and  Employee; and 
Is signed  by the Company and  Employee and  if the  Employee is  under 18 years 
of age, signed by a parent or guardian of the Employee; and 
Includes details of: 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  How the  Employee  will  be  better off overall  in  relation  to the terms and 

The terms of this Agreement that will be varied  by the arrangement; and 
How the arrangement will vary the effect of the terms; and 

conditions of their employment as a result of the arrangement; and 

(e) 

States the day on which the arrangement commences. 

8 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

4.4.4 

The Company must give the Employee a copy of the individual flexibility arrangement 
within  14 days after it is agreed to. 

4.4.5 

The Company or Employee may terminate the individual flexibility arrangement; 

(a) 

(b) 

by  giving  no  more  than  28  days  written  notice  to  the  other  party  to  the 
arrangement; or 
if the Company and  Employee agree in writing to the termination - at any time. 

4.5 

Stand Down of Employees 

4.5.1 

The Company may stand down an  Employee without pay during a period  in  which the 
Employee  cannot  usefully  be  employed  because  of  one  of 
following 
circumstances: 

the 

(a) 

Industrial  action  (other than  industrial  action  organised  or  engaged  in  by  the 
Company); 

(b)  A breakdown  of machinery or  equipment,  for  reasons  by  which  the  Company 

(c) 

cannot be  held responsible for the breakdown; 
A stoppage of work for any cause for which the Company cannot reasonably be 
held responsible. 

4.5.2 

An  Employee is not taken to be stood down during a period when the Employee: 

(a) 
(b) 

is taking paid or unpaid leave that is authorised by the Company; or 
is otherwise authorised to be absent from their employment. 

4.6 

Employee Performance Management 

4.6.1 

Where  the  Company  believes  that  an  Employee  is  not  meeting  the  standards  of 
performance,  conduct  reasonably expected  of them  or  affected  by  alcohol  and  /  or 
any other drug the following procedures will  apply: 

• 

• 

• 

In  the  first  instance,  the  Employee  will  be  counselled  as  to  where  their 
performance or conduct is deficient. Where  appropriate, the steps to be taken 
to  remedy  the  deficiency  will  be  identified  and  a  review  period  will  be  set. 
Where  an  Employee  is  found  to  be  affected  by  alcohol  and  /  or  any  drug, 
counselling and  rehabilitation may be offered to the Employee.  In  more serious 
cases a written warning may be  issued at this stage. 

If  the  Employee's  work  performance  or  conduct  fails  to  improve  to  the 
standard  reasonably  required  by 
the  Employee  will  be 
counselled  again  and  the  Company  may  issue  a written  warning advising the 
Employee that their employment is in jeopardy if there is not an  immediate and 
sustained  improvement  by  the  Employee.  A  further  monitoring  and  review 
period  may  be  set  if appropriate.  In  more serious  cases,  the  Company  issues 
the Employee with a final written warning. 

the  Company, 

Should the matter still not be resolved,  except where the Employee has already 
been  issued with a final written warning, the Employee will  be  counselled again 
and  a  further  written  warning  given.  This  warning  shall  be  a  final  warning 
unless, in the opinion of the Company, this is not warranted. 

9 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

• 

A final  written  warning  should  advise  the  Employee  that  unless  there  is  an 
immediate  and  sustained  improvement  by  the  Employee,  their  employment 
may be terminated. 

The  Employee  will  at all  stages  be  given  the  opportunity to  make  a  response  and 
have another Employee or support person present if they so wish. 

Nothing  prevents  the  Company  from  terminating  the  Employee's  employment  in 
accordance with this Agreement during any stage of this process. 

REMUNERATION 

Classification 

Persons engaged as  Employees under the terms of this Agreement shall be classified 
in accordance with the classifications set out in Appendix 1 of this Agreement. 

Any payments or other entitlements provided to Employees in excess of the minimum 
requirements  set  out  in  this  Agreement  (if applicable),  may  be  off set against  any 
liability,  claim  or entitlement that an  Employee  may claim  against the Company with 
respect to their employment. 

The  provisions of sub-clause 5.1.2 of this Agreement, shall not operate or be  applied 
in  any  way  which  may  result  in  or  have  the  effect  of  excluding  or  reducing  NES 
entitlements. 

4.6.2 

4.6.3 

5. 

5.:1. 

5.1.1 

5.1.2 

5.1.3 

5.2 

Rates of Pay 

5.2.1 

5.2.2 

5.2.3 

The  wage  rates  set out  in  Table A of Appendix 2  of the Agreement apply to full-time 
and  part-time  Employees  engaged  in  the  classifications  described  in  Appendix  1  of 
this Agreement over the life of the Agreement. 

Rates apply on  and from the beginning of the first pay period to commence after the 
date indicated. 

The  rates of pay in Appendix 2 of this Agreement have been  calculated to incorporate 
the  Follow-the-Job  Loading  Industry  Allowance,  Special  Allowance  and  where 
applicable, the Tool Allowance. 

5.3 

Superannuation 

5.3.1 

5.3.2 

5.3.3 

The  Company  shall  make  superannuation  contributions  to  the  Construction  and 
Building  Industry  Super  (Cbus)  fund,  or  another fund  nominated  by  the  Employee 
provided the fund complies with the Superannuation Guarantee Legislation including 
a MySuper product. 

The  rate  of contribution  shall  be  9.5%  of ordinary time  earnings  in  accordance  with 
superannuation legislation which  may change from time to time. 

"Ordinary  Time  Earnings"  means  the  actual  ordinary  rate  of  pay  the  Employee 
receives  for  ordinary  hours  of  work.  This  includes  the  Employee's  wage  rate 
(including casual  loading),  allowances,  bonus',  paid  leave  or  holiday  pay,  payments 
made  in  lieu  of  notice  or  any  other  remuneration  paid  in  relation  to  ordinary time 
worked  or work  related  injury or illness for which the  Employee  is  receiving Workers' 
Compensation payments (subject to to a maximum of 52 weeks). 

10 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

5.3.4 

5.3.5 

Employees  earning  less  than  $450  per  month  shall  not  be  entitled  to  any 
superannuation contribution. 

Employees under the age of 18 years of age,  who  work less than 30 hours per week, 
shall not be entitled to any superannuation contribution. 

5.4 

Payment of Wages 

5.4.1 

All wages, allowances and other monies shall be  paid weekly: -

(a) 

(b) 

Into  an  account  in  the  name  of  the  Employee  (whether  or  not  jointly  with 
another  person)  at  a  financial  institution  by  electronic  transfer  of  funds  or 
other means; or 
By  cheque  payable  to  the  Employee  if there  is  agreement  in  writing  between 
the Company and the Employee. 

Weekly  wages  shall  be  processed  so  as  to  be  accessible  by  the  Employee  no  later 
than the close of business on  Friday of each working week. 

On  becoming  aware  of  any  overpayment  to  an  Employee  the  Company  shall 
immediately notify the  Employee  of the overpayment,  and  obtain  a written  authority 
from  the  Employee  to  effect  deductions.  Employees  shall  pay  back  all  monies 
overpaid. 

In  determining any termination payment, the Company may deduct from the payment 
any balance  of outstanding monies owing to the Company,  with the written authority 
of the Employee. 

The Company shall pay any termination entitlements by cheque or by direct debit into 
the  Employee's  nominated  account with  a bank  or financial  institution  no  later than 
five (5) days after the termination. 

5.4.2 

5.4.3 

5.4.4 

5.4.5 

5.5 

Site Specific Payments 

5.5.1 

Where site specific payments are  made on  a project these  payments must be  made 
in accordance with the requirements of the Building Code 2016. 

5.5.2 

The following conditions will apply where site specific payments are made: 

• 

• 
• 
• 

The  Company  may,  at its discretion,  adopt some  or all  of those  payments for 
the duration of that project. 
Payments will  only apply while Employees are engaged on the site or project. 
Project Agreements cannot override the arrangements of this Agreement. 
Site  Specific  payments  cannot  apply  unless  they  are  provided  for  in  an 
industrial instrument approved by the FWC. 

5.6 

Over-Agreement Payments 

5.6.1 

The Company may enter into an arrangement with an  Employee to pay that Employee 
remuneration  in  excess  of that provided  in  Appendix 2  of this Agreement.  Additional 
remuneration  may  be  paid  by  way  of a  higher  rate  than  the  rate  specified  for  the 
Employee's classification in the relevant Table  in Appendix 2 of this Agreement. 

11 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

5.6.2 

5.6.3 

Where  remuneration  is  paid  by  way  of  a  higher  hourly  rate,  the  new  rate  shall 
become  the  hourly  rate  for  all  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  including  for  the 
calculation of long service payments by the Long Service Corporation. 

An  hourly rate  in  excess of the wage  rates set out in the relevant Table in  Appendix 2 
of this Agreement may be subject to review based  on  Employee  performance, project 
progress,  or other criterion.  Payment of the amount of the higher hourly rate  may be 
discontinued  in  circumstances  where  an  Employee's  performance  is  assessed  as 
unsatisfactory.  Alternatively,  the  amount  of excess  may  be  offset  against  any  later 
increases  in  the  hourly  rates  prescribed  in  the  relevant Table  in  Appendix  2  of this 
Agreement. 

5. 7 

Leading Hand Allowance 

5.7.1 

An  Employee  shall  be  paid  a  leading  hand  allowance  where  such  Employee  is 
required  by  the  Company  to  take  responsibility  for  supervising  the  work  of  other 
Employees. 

Leading Hands 

In  charge of 1 person 

In  charge of 2 to 5 persons 

In charge of 6 to 10 persons 

In charge of more than 10 persons 

Allowance Per Hour 

$ 

0.60 

1.25 

1.60 

2.20 

6. 

6.1 

6.1.1 

6.1.2 

6.1.3 

6.1.4 

TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS 

Daily Fares 

Employees shall start and  cease work on a building and  construction site at the usual 
commencing and finishing times,  and  will  transfer from  site to site as  directed  by the 
Company. 

Time spent by  Employees travelling from  home to the site and  return  outside ordinary 
hours  will  not  be  regarded  as  time  worked,  except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this 
Agreement. 

The  allowances  prescribed  by  this  clause  are  not  to  be  taken  into  account  for 
calculating  entitlements  for  overtime,  penalty  rates,  annual  or  personal  /  carer's 
leave or rostered days off. 

Employees  who  are  required  to  commence  or  cease  work  on  a  building  and 
construction  site,  shall  be  paid  a  Daily  Fares  Allowance  of  $17.45  for  each  day 
worked at a construction site located: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Within a radius of 50 kilometres of the GPO  in  a capital  city of a State or 
Territory; 
Within  a radius  of 50 kilometres of the  principal  post office in  a regional 
city or town  in a State or Territory: or, 
Within  a  radius  of  50  kilometres  from  the  place  where  an  Employee 
performing distant duty is accommodated with the Company's approval. 

12 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

6.1.5 

The allowance entitlement in the preceding clause shall not apply where: -

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

The  Company  provides  the  Employee  with  a  vehicle  not  related  to  their 
contract of employment; or 
The  Company  provides  or  offers  to  provide  transport  from  the  Employee's 
home to the job and return free of charge;  or, 
Or where the Employee is absent from work. 

6.2 

Travel Outside Radial Areas 

6.2.1 

Where  the  Company  requires  an  Employee  to  travel  daily from  inside  a  radial  area 
mentioned  in  the  clause  6.1.4,  to  work  on  a  building and  construction  site  outside 
that area, the Employee will  be entitled to: 

(a) 

The allowance prescribed in clause 6.1.4 for each day worked; and, 

(b)  Payment for the time reasonably spent in travelling from the designated  radial 
boundary  to  the  job  and  return  to  the  radial  boundary.  Payments  shall  be 
calculated to the next 15 minutes, with a minimum payment of 30 minutes per 
return journey per day; and, 

(c) 

Any  other expenses  necessarily and  reasonably  incurred  in  such  travel,  which 
will  be  at a rate  per  kilometre  set out  in  the table  below  where  the  Employee 
uses their own vehicle to travel  by the most direct trafficable route. 

Start Date 

Per KM 

$ 

0.50 

1July 2021 

Per KM 

1July 2022 

Per KM 

1July 2023 

Per KM 

1July 2024 

Per KM 

$ 

0.51 

$ 

0.52 

$ 

0.53 

$ 

0.54 

6.2.2 

6.2.3 

6.2.4 

An  employee whose  residence  is outside the radial  areas  prescribed  in  clause  6.1.4 
and  who  crosses  a  radial  boundary  while  travelling  to  work  on  a  building  and 
construction  site will  be  entitled  to the  daily fares  allowance  (where  applicable)  but 
not the payments set out in sub-clauses 6.2.1(b) or (c). 

An  Employee transferred  from  one  site to another during working hours  will  be  paid 
for the time  occupied  in travelling and,  unless transported  by the Company,  must be 
paid  reasonable cost of fares  by the most convenient public transport between such 
sites. 

Where  an  Employee  agrees  to  the  Company's  request  to  use  the  Employee's  own 
vehicle for such a transfer, the Employee must be  paid an  allowance per kilometre at 
a  rate  set  out  in  the  table  below  where  the  Employee  travels  by  the  most  direct 
trafficable route. 

Start Date 

Per KM 

$ 

0.80 

1July 2021 

Per KM 

1July 2022 

Per KM 

1July 2023 

Per KM 

1July 2024 

Per KM 

$ 

0.81 

$ 

0.82 

$ 

0.83 

$ 

0.84 

13 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

6.3 

Travel To and  From  Distant Work 

6.3.1 

An  Employee travelling to or from  a location  where  Distant Work  is  undertaken shall 
be: 

• 

• 

Paid  at the  relevant  rate  of pay set out in  Appendix  2  of this Agreement for a 
period  of up  to  eight  (8)  hours  per day while  travelling to  the site  location,  or 
home from the location. 
Reimbursed for any fares,  meals,  or any other incidental  expenses  reasonably 
incurred in the travelling. 

6.3.2 

6.3.3 

An  Employee  undertaking  Distant  Work  shall  be  permitted  to  return  to  their  home 
during a period  of distant work.  Where  an  Employee  does  return  to their home,  the 
travel  shall  be  undertaken  in  the  Employee's  own  time  at  the  Employee's  own 
expense. 

An  Employee  undertaking  Distant  Work  shall  be  entitled  to  the  Weekend  Return 
Home  provisions  and  the  Rest  and  Recreation  provisions  of the  reference  Modern 
Award. 

6.4 

Accommodation and  Board  During Distant Work 

6.4.1 

6.4.2 

The Company may require an  Employee to undertake distant work at locations where 
it is  not  reasonable  or  possible for the  Employee  to  return  to  their  normal  place  of 
residence each night. 

Where this occurs, the Company shall  provide the  Employee  with  accommodation  in 
a  hotel,  motel  or  rented  premises  at  no  expense 
the  Employee.  This 
accommodation  shall  be  in  clean  and  well  maintained  premises,  and  be  of  an 
adequate standard,  in  a single  or shared  room  with  adequate furnishings,  bedding, 
floor coverings,  lighting, heating and access to bathroom facilities. 

to 

6.4.3 

The  Company shall  also  reimburse  an  Employee  undertaking distant work a sum  of 
up to $60.00 per day for: 

6.4.4 

7. 

7.1 

7.1.1 

• 
• 

The cost of three adequate meals each  day; and, 
For  other  incidental  expenses  incurred  by  the  Employee  while  undertaking 
distant work. 

As an alternative to subclause 6.4.2 above, the Company may require an  Employee to 
arrange and  pay for their own  acco.mmodation  and  meals whilst required  to be  away 
from  home.  When  this  occurs,  an  Employee  shall  be  paid  a  living away  from  home 
allowance of $525.00 per 7 day week or $75.00 per day (night) where the Employee 
is away from  home for less than 7 days in a week. 

HOURS OF WORK 

Ordinary Hours 

Ordinary hours will  be  38 hours per week,  Monday to  Friday with  a maximum  of 7.6 
ordinary  paid  hours a day.  All  ordinary hours shall  be  worked  between the hours of 
7.00 a.m. and  6.00 p.m. The  ordinary hours of work for part-time  Employees are  less 
than 38 per week. 

14 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

7.1.2 

7.1.3 

7.1.4 

With  respect of clause 7.1.1 above,  pursuant to clause  33.1 (viii) of the Building and 
Construction  General  On-Site  Award  2010,  the  ordinary  working  day  may  start  at 
6.00  a.m.  The  change  to  the  start  time  requires  an  agreement  between  the 
Company and the Employee(s) and their representative(s)  if required. 

Start  and  finish  times,  and  times  for  meal  breaks  shall  be  agreed  between  the 
parties from time to time.  Where  no  agreement can  be  reached, the Company shall 
determine all  reasonable work times that accord with business requirements. 

The  working  day  will  commence  on  the  directed  hour  or  half hour  after tools  and 
minor materials have  been  unpacked  and  readied for  use.  Finishing time will  be  on 
the hour or half hour directed and  does not include time to pack up tools and sundry 
material. 

7 .2 

Rostered  Days Off 

7.2.1 

The  parties  agree  that  no  system  of  rostered  days  off  shall  be  observed.  This 
Agreement was  made in  accordance with the provisions of clause 33.1(a) (vii)  of the 
reference Award  prior to the making of the Agreement. 

7 .3 

Overtime 

7.3.1 

7.3.2 

7.3.3 

7.3.4 

7.3.5 

Overtime shall  be  paid  where an  Employee works  in  excess of their ordinary hours  in 
any  one  day,  Monday  to  Friday  or  outside  the  span  of  ordinary  hours  set  out  in 
clauses 7.1.1, 7.1.2 or 7.1.3. 

An  overtime  rate  of  time  and  a  half for  the  first two  (2)  hours  on  each  day,  and 
double time thereafter, shall apply to all overtime worked  Monday to Friday. 

All  calculation  of overtime payments shall  use the applicable ordinary time rates set 
out in Appendix 2 Table A of this Agreement. 

All  Employees agree to  work  a reasonable amount of overtime  without notice  in  the 
event of unusual events such as delays or urgent rectification work for clients. 

All  Employees must make themselves available to work reasonable additional  hours. 
Reasonable  additional  hours  shall  be  determined  through  consideration  of  the 
following factors: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

The Work Health and Safety risk of an  Employee working any additional hours 
The personal circumstances of the Employee 
The operational requirements of the Company 
The amount of notice provided to the Employee 
The amount of notice provided  by an  Employee of an  intention to refuse work 
The  amount of hours already worked  by  the  Employee  over the  previous four 
week period 
Whether the Employee is being asked to work on  a public holiday 

7.3.6 

This  list  is  not exhaustive  of all  possible  considerations  to  take  into  account  when 
determining reasonable additional  hours.  Communication  with  each  Employee  is the 
key in  determining what will  be  reasonable. 

15 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

7 .4 

Work on  Weekends and Public Holidays 

7.4.1 

All  work  performed  on  a Saturday by  Employees shall  be  paid  at time and  a half for 
the  first  2  hours  and  at  double  time  after  that.  Employees,  except  casuals, 
undertaking work on  a Saturday shall  be  paid for a minimum attendance of three (3) 
hours. 

7.4.2 

All work performed after 12 pm  on Saturday shall be  paid at double time. 

7.4.3 

7.4.4 

7.4.5 

7 .4.6 

All  work  performed  on  a Sunday by  Employees shall  be  paid  at double time.  A full 
time  Employee  undertaking  work  on  a  Sunday  shall  be  paid  for  a  minimum 
attendance of four hours. 

All  work performed by Employees on  a public holiday shall  be  paid at a rate of double 
time and a half, with a minimum payment for four (4) hours. 

As a general  rule,  Employees will  not work on  public holidays.  However, the Company 
may request an  Employee to work on  a public holiday if the request is reasonable. 

If the Company requests an  Employee to work on  a public holiday, the Employee may 
refuse the request if: 

• 
• 

The  request is not reasonable; or, 
The  refusal  is reasonable. 

7 .4. 7 

Subject to sub-clause 7.4.4 of this Agreement, where ordinary duty commenced on a 
Friday and  extends after midnight, the whole of the shift shall  be  paid  in  accordance 
with  provisions relating to work performed on a Friday. 

7.5 

Ordinary Time Meal and Rest Breaks 

7.5.1 

7.5.2 

7 .5.3 

Subject  to  the  provisions  of  sub-clause  7.6.5  of  this  Agreement,  Employees  are 
entitled to  a paid  rest  period  of 10 minutes  between  9.00  a.m.  and  11.00 a.m.  for 
any day worked. 

Employees  are  entitled  to  an  unpaid  meal  break  of 30  minutes  no  later than  after 
five (5) hours of work in any day. 

This  meal  break  may  be  rescheduled  to  suit  site  operations,  such  as  material 
deliveries, crane  lifts or concrete  pours.  Where this occurs, the  unpaid  break may be 
taken either before or after the operation in question is complete. 

7.5.4 

If the Company requires an  Employee to work during the unpaid  break referred to  in 
clause 7.5.2 of this Agreement, either: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  Employee shall  be  paid  at the  rate  of double time  (calculated  on  the  base 
rate)  for the  period  worked  between  the  prescribed  time  of cessation  for the 
usual  meal  break and the beginning of the time allowed  in  substitution for the 
meal break; or 

the  Company  and  Employee(s)  may  agree  to  shorten  the  working  day  by  the 
length  of the break not taken. Time worked  in this manner will form  part of the 
ordinary working time for the day and will be paid accordingly. 

16 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

7 .6 

Overtime and Weekend Crib Breaks 

7.6.1 

7 .6.2 

7.6.3 

7.6.4 

7 .6.5 

An  Employee  required  to  work  overtime  for  at  least  one  and  a  half  hours  after 
working ordinary hours, shall be  paid  a meal allowance of $15.50 to meet the cost of 
the meal. 

An  Employee  required to work overtime of two (2)  hours or more on any day,  Monday 
to Friday, shall  be entitled to a crib  break of 20 minutes.  This  break shall  be  paid  at 
double ordinary time rates of pay. 

A further crib  break of 30 minutes may be taken after each subsequent block of four 
(4) hours overtime worked,  provided that work is  resumed after the crib break. These 
crib breaks are paid at the rate applicable immediately prior to the crib break. 

An  Employee  performing  duty  on  a  Saturday,  Sunday  or  public  holiday  shall  be 
allowed  a crib  break  of 20  minutes  after each  four  hours  of work  performed,  if the 
Employee continues work after such crib break. 

Crib  breaks connected with  Saturday, Sunday or  public  holiday work shall  be  paid  at 
the rate applicable at the time that the break is taken. 

7. 7 

Rest Period Before or After Overtime 

7.7.1 

When  overtime work is necessary, wherever reasonably practical, it shall be arranged 
so that Employees  have at least 10 consecutive  hours  off duty between the work  of 
two successive days. 

7.7.2 

If an  Employee does not have a break of 10 consecutive hours off between: 

(a) 

(b) 

ordinary work on  one day and the commencement of their ordinary work on the 
next day as a result of working overtime; or, 

Saturdays,  Sundays  and  holidays  (not  being  ordinary  working days)  in  the  24 
hours  preceding  the  employees  ordinary  commencing  time  on  the  next 
ordinary working day or shift, shall:-
• 

Be  released from  duty without loss of pay for ordinary working time  until 
they have had 10 consecutive hours rest; or, 
Be  paid  at  double  ordinary  time  rates  if  the  Employee  resumes  or 
continues  work  without  having  10  consecutive  hours  off  duty.  When 
ultimately  released  from  duty  they  shall  not  be  required  to  report  for 
work again  until 10 consecutive hours is taken. 

• 

7.7.3 

7.7.4 

Should  an  Employee's  10  hours  rest  period  end  within  two  hours  of their  normal 
ceasing time, they shall not be required to report for work on that day. 

If excessive  time  is  involved  in  an  Employee  travelling from  their  home  during their 
rest period, special  consideration  as to the  length of the  rest  period  will  be given  on 
an  individual basis. 

7 .8 

Call Back 

7.8.1 

An  Employee shall be deemed to be  on a call  back if the Employee is recalled to work 
overtime without receiving prior notice before ceasing work. 

17 

7.8.2 

7.8.3 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

Any  Employee who  is called  back to work as defined in  clause  7.8.1 shall  be  paid for 
a minimum of four (4)  hours work at the appropriate  overtime  rate for each time so 
recalled,  provided that any subsequent call  backs occurring within a four hour period 
of a call back shall  not attract any additional payment. 

Except  in  the  case  of unforeseen  circumstances  arising,  the  Employee  shall  not  be 
required  to work  the full  four (4)  hours  if the job that the  Employee  was  recalled  to 
perform is completed within a shorter period. This sub-clause shall not apply in  cases 
where  it  is  customary for  an  Employee  to  return  to  the  place  of work  to  perform  a 
is 
specific  job(s)  outside  the  Employees  ordinary  hours,  or  where  overtime 
continuous  subject 
the  completion  or 
commencement of ordinary hours. 

reasonable  meal  break  with 

to  a 

7 .9 

Shift Work 

7.9.1 

Employees  may  work  some  or  all  of  their  ordinary  hours  on  shift  work.  Where 
Employees  perform  shift work  on  building  and  construction  sites,  the  provisions  of 
this  clause  shall  apply.  Where  Employees  perform  shift  work  on  civil  construction 
sites, the award shift work provisions of clause 34.2 shall apply. 

7 .9.2 

For the purpose of this clause: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Afternoon  Shift  means  a  shift  commencing  at  or  after  1.00  pm  and  before 
3.00 pm. 
Night Shift  means a shift commencing at or after 3.00  pm  and  before  11.00 
pm. 
Morning Shift means a shift commencing at or after 4.30 am  and  before 6.00 
am. 
Early  Afternoon  Shift  means  a  shift  commencing  on  or  after  11.00  am  and 
before 1.00 pm. 

7.9.3 

Provided  that the  Employee  is  employed  continuously  (inclusive  of  public  holidays) 
for five (5) shifts Monday to Friday, the following rates shall apply: 

7.9.4 

7.9.5 

7.9.6 

Afternoon and Night Shifts - Ordinary time plus 50 per cent (50%). 

(a) 
(b)  Morning and  Early Afternoon Shifts - Ordinary time plus 25 per cent (25%). 

In  the  case  of  broken  shifts  (i.e.,  less  than  five  (5)  consecutive  shifts  Monday  to 
Friday),  the  rates  prescribed  shall  be  time and  a half for the first two  (2)  hours and 
double time thereafter. 

Where  ordinary duty commenced  on  a Friday and  extends after midnight, the  whole 
shift  shall  be  paid  in  accordance  with  provisions  relating  to  the  relevant  shift 
contained above. 
For all  work  performed  on  a Saturday or Sunday, the  normal  rates  of pay applicable 
to weekend  overtime shall  apply.  Provided  that an  ordinary night shift commencing 
before  and  extending  beyond  midnight  Friday  shall  be  regarded  as  a  Friday  shift. 
Provided further, where a shift commences on  a Sunday night but the majority of the 
shift  is  worked  on  the  Monday  morning,  the  shift  will  be  paid  as  a  Monday  shift. 
Conversely,  where  the  majority  of  the  shift  is  worked  on  a  Sunday  night  (prior  to 
midnight), then the Sunday rate of pay will  be paid for the entire shift. 

7.9.7 

All  work  in  excess  of shift hours,  Monday to  Friday shall  be  paid  for  at double time 
based on the ordinary rates of pay (excluding shift rates). 

18 

8. 

8.1 

8.2 

8.3 

8.4 

8.5 

8.6 

8.7 

8.8 

8.9 

8.10 

8.11 

8.12 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

INCLEMENT WEATHER  PROCEDURE 

Inclement weather  means  rain,  or  abnormal  climatic  conditions  such  as  hail,  snow, 
cold,  high wind,  severe dust storm, extreme high temperature, or any combination of 
these. 

The  procedures set out below shall apply if it is either not reasonable,  or not safe, for 
Employees exposed to these climatic conditions to continue working. 

The  Company  and  relevant  Employees  must  confer  within  a  reasonable  time  (not 
exceeding 60 minutes) whether or not the conditions in this clause shall apply. 

An  Employee  will  be  entitled  to  payment  by  the  Company  for  ordinary  time  lost 
through inclement weather for up to 32 hours in  every calendar month. The calendar 
shall  operate  in  accordance  with  the  Inclement Weather  Calendar  published  by  the 
Master  Builders  Association  of NSW.  No  Employee  will  be  entitled  to  receive  more 
than 32 hours inclement weather payment in any period of 4 weeks. 

A part-time Employee, will  be  entitled to payment on a pro-rata basis according to the 
number of ordinary hours agreed to be worked  in the four (4) week period. 

Where  an  Employee  has  less  than  one  month  of continuous  employment  with  the 
Company, the maximum pay entitlement for time lost due to inclement weather shall 
be  determined  by which  week  in the four week  inclement weather calendar that the 
Employee commenced work. 

Employees shall accept transfer to an  area or site not affected  by inclement weather 
if,  in  the opinion  of the  Company,  useful  work  is available  in  that area  or site.  If it is 
necessary,  and  consistent with  safe  working  procedures,  to walk through  inclement 
areas in  order to make areas safe, reasonable personal protection will  be provided. 

If only a  part of a project  is  affected  by  inclement weather,  all  other  Employees  not 
affected shall  continue working, regardless of the fact that some Employees may not 
be gainfully employed due to inclement weather. 

Employees  shall  be  transferred  to  work  within  the  scope  of their skill,  competence 
and training. 

Where  it  is  necessary  to  transfer  to  another  site  or  location,  transport  shall  be 
provided,  or  payment  made  for  use  of an  Employee's  own  vehicle,  at ordinary time 
rates. 

Where  a full-time  Employee  is  not able to  perform  any work at any location because 
of  inclement  weather,  the  Employee  shall  receive  payment  at  the  ordinary  rate. 
Payment for time lost due to inclement weather is subject to a maximum of 32 hours 
pay in any calendar month for each  Employee. 

Where  Employees  are  prevented  from  working  by  inclement weather,  and  have  not 
been  assigned  duties  where  it  is  reasonable  and  safe  to  work,  the  Company  may 
release Employees from any requirement to remain on-site. 

Employees  may  be  released  from  duty where  Employees  have  been  prevented from 
working: -

• 

For  more than  an  accumulated total  of four hours of ordinary time  in  any one 
day; or after the meal break, 

19 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

• 

• 

For more than an accumulated total of 50% of the normal afternoon work time; 
or, 
During  the  final  two  hours  of  the  normal  work  day  for  more  than  an 
accumulated total of one hour. 

9. 

9.1 

9.1.1 

LEAVE 

Accrual of Entitlements/ Continuity of Service 

Accrued  entitlements  of  full-time  and  part-time  Employees  as  at  the  date  of 
lodgement  of  this  Agreement  shall  carry  forward  as  entitlements  under  this 
Agreement. Those  entitlements shall  be  applied  in  accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement. 

9.1.2 

The  following  reasons  for  absence  are  to  be  included  in  calculating  continuous 
service for purposes of accrual of entitlements: -

• 

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 

illness or accident up to a maximum of four weeks after the expiration of paid 
sick leave; 
jury service; 
injury received during the course of employment and  up to a maximum of 26 
weeks for which the employee received worker's compensation; 
where called  up for military service for up to three months in any qualifying 
period; 
long service leave; and 
any reason satisfactory to the employer,  provided the employee has informed 
the employer within 24 hours of the time when the employee was due to 
attend for work, or as soon as practicable thereafter, of the reason for the 
absence and probable duration 

Entitlements  to  Annual  Leave,  Personal  /  Carer's  Leave  and  Redundancy  do  not 
accrue if an  Employee has an absence that is for any other reason. 

Absences for reasons  other than those that count for calculating continuous service 
do  not  otherwise  break  the  continuity  of  the  Employee's  employment  with  the 
Company. 

An  Employee  is  entitled  to  take  and  accrue  any  leave  or  absence  (whether  paid  or 
unpaid) when  the  Employee  is absent from  work  because  of a  personal  illness,  or a 
personal 
receiving  workers  compensation 
payments. An  Employee  is  not prevented from taking unpaid parental  leave during a 
period where the Employee is  receiving workers compensation payments. 

the  Employee 

for  which 

injury, 

is 

9.1.3 

9.1.4 

9.1.5 

9.2 

Annual Leave 

9.2.1 

All  full-time  and  part-time  Employees  are  entitled  to  annual  leave.  Payment  for 
annual  leave shall  be  made at the Employee's ordinary time rate of pay as defined in 
clause 5.2.3 of this Agreement. 

9.2.2 

Employees  (other than  casual  Employees)  are  entitled to  4  weeks  annual  leave  per 
year of service. 

20 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

9.2.3 

9.2.4 

Annual  leave  accrues  progressively  during  each  year  of  service  according  to  the 
Employee's ordinary hours of work and accumulates from year to year. 

Consistent  with  Section  87(1)(b))(ii)  and  Section  196(2)  of  the  FW  Act  for  each 
completed  year  of continuous service  Employees  engaged  on  continuous  shift work 
shall  be  entitled  up  to  an  additional  one  (1)  weeks'  annual  leave.  This  entitlement 
shall  accrue  on  a  pro-rata  basis for  each  completed  week  of continuous  shift  duty 
during any anniversary year.  For the purpose of this clause,  "continuous shiftworker" 
means  an  Employee  engaged  to  work  in  a system  of consecutive  shifts throughout 
the  24  hours  of each  of at  least  six  consecutive  days  without  interruption  (except 
during breakdown  or  meal  breaks  or due to  unavoidable  causes  beyond  the  control 
of the Company) and who is  regularly rostered to work those shifts. 

9.2.5 

Annual  leave may be taken at any time: 

(a) 
(b) 
(c) 

by agreement between an  Employee and the Company; 
subject to clause 9.2.6; and 
subject to  available  credit and  the  operational  requirements  of the  Company, 
but the Company shall  not unreasonably refuse  or  revoke  an  authorisation for 
annual leave. 

9.2.6 

Annual leave may be taken in the following ways: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

at  a  time,  and  for  a  period,  fixed  by  the  Company  where  there  is  an  annual 
close down or part of the Company closes down; 
in  periods  of  not  less  than  one  day,  provided  that the  Employee  seeks  the 
agreement of the  Company at least one  week  before  commencing the  period 
of annual leave; 
where  an  Employee  has  accrued  in  excess  of 2  years  (i.e.  8  weeks)  worth  of 
annual leave, the Company may require the Employee to take the excess leave 
at a time and for a period fixed  by the Company. 

An  Employee taking leave  may request to be  paid  in  advance for the period  of leave 
taken. This advance payment shall  be the amount of wage the Employee would  have 
received  on  a  pay  day  during the  period  of  leave,  for the  ordinary  time  hours  the 
Employee would  have worked had they not been  on  leave during the period. 

If a public holiday occurs during a period of annual  leave, that public holiday shall  be 
added to the period of leave. 

No  payment shall be  made in  lieu of annual leave unless the payment is made in  lieu 
of an  Employee's  entitlements at the time of terminating employment.  A full-time  or 
part-time and who terminates their employment, or whose employment is terminated 
by  the  Company,  shall  be  entitled  to  a  payment for  any  credit  of annual  leave  not 
taken. 

9.2.7 

9.2.8 

9.2.9 

9.3 

Annual Leave Loading 

9.3.1 

In  addition  to  the  payment  prescribed  in  clause  9.2  hereof,  an  eligible  full-time  or 
part-time  Employee  will  be  entitled  to  an  annual  leave  loading calculated  at  17 .5% 
on  the  payment due  to them  for their accrued  annual  leave  entitlement inclusive of 
the  daily fares  allowance.  This  loading shall  be  paid  on  accrued  leave  paid  out on 
termination.  However,  if an  Employee  is  in  receipt of a shift loading and  proceeds on 
annual leave, such Employee shall continue to receive  payment of the shift loading in 
lieu of the 17 .5% leave loading where the shift loading is higher. 

21 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

9.4 

Personal /  Carer's Leave 

9.4.1 

9.4.2 

9.4.3 

9.4.4 

Full-time  Employees are  entitled to 10 days of paid  personal/carer's leave  based  on 
the  Employee's  ordinary  hours  of duty and  the  Employee's  ordinary  rate  of  pay  for 
each  completed  year  of  continuous  employment  with  the  Company.  Part-time 
Employees are entitled to the pro-rata equivalent. 

Paid  personal/carer's  leave  accrues  progressively  during  each  year  of  service 
according to  the  Employee's  ordinary  hours  of work,  and  accumulates from  year to 
year. 

All  accrued personaljcarer's leave shall  be available for use as sick leave and  carer's 
leave in accordance with the provisions outlined below. 

An  Employee (other than a casual  Employee)  may take paid  personal/carer's leave if 
the leave is taken: 

(a) 

(b) 

As  sick leave - because the Employee is unfit for work as a result of a personal 
illness, or personal  injury, affecting the Employee; or 
As  carer's  leave  - to  provide  care  or  support to  a  member  of the  Employee's 
immediate  family,  or  a  member  of the  Employee's  household,  who  requires 
care or support because of: 
(i) 

a  personal  illness,  or  personal  injury  affecting the  immediate  family  or 
household member, or 
an  unexpected  emergency  affecting the  immediate family  or  household 
member. 

(ii) 

9.4.5 

An  Employee (including a casual  Employee) may take 2 days unpaid carer's leave per 
occasion  if: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  leave  is  taken  to  provide  care  or  support  as  provided  for  in  sub-clause 
9.4.4(b) of this Agreement; and 
the Employee does not have any paid  personal/carer's leave available. 

9.5 

Compassionate Leave 

9.5.1 

An  Employee  is  entitled to two days  of compassionate  leave for each  occasion  when 
a  member  of  the  Employee's  immediate  family  or  a  member  of  the  Employee's 
household: 

• 

• 
• 

Contracts  or  develops  a  personal  illness that  poses  a  serious  threat to  their 
life; or, 
Sustains a personal  injury that poses a serious threat to their life; or, 
Dies. 

9.5.2 

An  Employee  may take  compassionate  leave  on  a particular occasion  if the  leave  is 
taken: 

• 

• 

For  the  purpose  of  spending  time  with  the  member  of  the  Employee's 
immediate family  or  household  who  has  contracted  or  developed  the serious 
personal  illness, or sustained the serious personal injury; or, 
After  the  death  of  the  member  of  the  Employee's  immediate  family  or 
household; 

22 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

9.5.3 

An  Employee may take compassionate leave for a particular permissible occasion as: 

• 
• 
• 

A single continuous period of two days; or, 
Two separate periods of one day each; or, 
Any separate periods to which the Employee and the Company agree. 

9.5.4 

If the permissible occasion  is the contraction or development of a personal  illness, or 
the sustaining of a personal  injury, the  Employee  may take the compassionate  leave 
for that occasion at any time while the illness or injury persists. 

9.5.5 

Employees  other than  casual  Employees  will  be  paid  for a period  of compassionate 
leave at their base rate of pay for their ordinary hours of work in the period. 

9.5.6 

For casual  Employees, compassionate leave is unpaid leave. 

9.6 

Notice of Absence 

9.6.1 

An  Employee  must  give  the  Company  notice  of  the  taking  of  Personal  /  Carer's 
Leave, or Compassionate Leave  if the Employee is taking leave. 

9.6.2 

The  notice: -

• 

• 

Must be  given to the Company by 7.00 a.m. on the first day of the absence,  or 
as soon as is reasonably practicable after this time and; 
Must advise the Company of the period, or expected period of the leave. 

9.6.3 

An  Employee  who  has  given the Company notice of the taking of such  leave must,  if 
required  by the  Company,  provide  evidence that would  satisfy a  reasonable  person 
that: 

• 

• 

• 

the leave is taken for a reason specified 

If it is paid  Personal/ Carer's  leave -
in the clause relating to accrual of Carer's/ Personal  Leave; or, 
If it is  unpaid  Carer's  leave -
circumstances specified in the clause relating to unpaid Carer's Leave; or, 
If it is  compassionate leave -
circumstances specified in the clause relating to Compassionate Leave. 

the  leave  is  taken  for a permissible  occasion  in 

the  leave  is taken for a permissible occasion  in 

9.6.4 

9.6.5 

The  Company  may  request  evidence  in  the  form  of  a  certificate  from  a  treating 
medical or clinical  practitioner, a notice published  in  a newspaper or other media, or 
other evidence required to satisfy the Company. 

An  Employee is not entitled to take Personal/ Carer's Leave,  Unpaid Carer's Leave or 
Compassionate  Leave  unless  the  Employee  gives  notice  of  the  absence 
in 
accordance with this Clause. 

23 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

9.7 

Immediate Family or Household 

9.7.1 

The  entitlement to  Compassionate  and  Carer's  leave  is  subject to the  person  being 
either  a  member  of  the  Employee's  household  or  a  member  of  the  Employee's 
immediate family being; 

• 

• 

A spouse  includes  a former spouse.  A de-facto  partner  includes  a former  de 
facto  partner  of the  Employee.  A de-facto  partner also  means  a  person  who, 
although  not  legally  married  to  the  Employee,  lives  with  the  Employee  in  a 
relationship  as  a couple  on  a genuine domestic basis  (whether the  Employee 
and the person are of the same sex or different sexes). 

A child  or  an  adult  child  (including  an  adopted  child,  a  step  child  or  an  ex 
nuptial  child),  parent,  grandparent,  grandchild  or  sibling  of the  Employee  or 
spouse or child of a de-facto partner of the Employee. 

10. 

10.1 

ADDITIONAL LEAVE 

Community Service Activities 

10.1.1 

Each of the following is an eligible community service activity: 

10.2 

10.2.1 

• 

• 

• 

Jury  service  (including  attendance  for  the  purpose  of jury  selection)  that  is 
required  by or under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; or, 
Carrying out a voluntary  emergency management activity (within  the  meaning 
of Section  109 of the FW Act;  or 
An  activity prescribed by the FW  Regulations. 

Absence While Engaging in  a Community Service Activity 

An  Employee  who  engages  in  an  eligible  community service  activity  is  entitled to  be 
absent from  their employment for  a  period  if the  period  consists  of one  or  more  of 
the following: 

• 
• 
• 
• 

Time when the Employee engages in the activity; 
Reasonable travelling time associated with the activity; 
Reasonable rest time immediately following the activity; and, 
Unless the activity is jury service-the Employee's absence  is  reasonable  in  all 
the circumstances. 

10.3 

Notice Regarding Absence 

10.3.1 

An  Employee  who  wants  an  absence  from  their  employment  to  engage  in  a 
community service activity must give the Company notice of the absence. 

10.3.2 

The notice: 

• 

• 

Must be  given  to the  Company as  soon  as  reasonably  practicable (which  may 
be a time after the absence has started); and 
Must advise the Company of the period, or expected  period, of the absence. 

24 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

10.3.3 

An  Employee  who  has  given  the  Company  notice  of an  absence  under this  clause 
must,  if required  by the Company,  provide  evidence that would  satisfy a reasonable 
person that the absence is  because the Employee has been  or will  be  engaging in  an 
eligible community service activity. 

10.3.4 

An  Employee's  absence  from  their  employment  is  not  permissible  unless  the 
Employee complies with the clause. 

1.0.4 

Payment to Employees {Other Than Casuals) on  Jury Service 

10.4.1 

This clause applies if: 

• 

• 

An  Employee  is  absent  from  their  employment  for  a  period  because  of jury 
service in accordance with this clause; and, 
The  Employee is not a casual  Employee. 

10.4.2 

10.4.3 

The  Company  shall  pay  the  Employee  at the  Employee's  base  rate  of  pay  for  the 
Employee's ordinary hours of work in the period. 

The  Company  may  require  the  Employee  to  give  the  Company  evidence  that  would 
satisfy a reasonable person: 

• 

• 

That the Employee  has taken  all  necessary steps to obtain any amount of jury 
service pay to which the Employee is entitled; and, 
Of the total amount (even  if it is a nil amount) of jury service pay that has been 
paid, or is payable, to the Employee for the period. 

10.4.4 

If the  Company  requires  the  Employee  to  provide  the  evidence  referred  to  in  sub 
clause 10.4.3 of this Agreement: 

• 

• 

The  Employee  is  not  entitled  to  payment  under sub-clause  10.4.2  unless the 
Employee provides the evidence; and, 
If the  Employee  provides  the  evidence  the  amount  payable  to  the  Employee 
under this clause  is  reduced  by the total  amount of jury service pay that has 
been paid, or is payable, to the Employee, as  disclosed in the evidence. 

10.4.5 

If an  Employee is absent because of jury service in  relation to a particular jury service 
summons for a period, or a number of periods, of more than 10 days in total: 

• 

• 

• 

The  Company  is  only  required  to  pay  the  Employee  for  up  to  10  days  of 
absence;and 
The  evidence  provided  in  response  to  a  requirement  under this  clause  need 
only relate to the first 10 days of absence; and, 
The  reference in this clause to the total amount of jury service pay as disclosed 
in  evidence is a reference to the total amount so disclosed for the first 10 days 
of absence. 

1.0.5 

Leave to Deal with  Family and Domestic Violence 

10.5.1 

This clause applies to all  Employees,  including casuals. 

25 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

10.5.2 

Definitions 

(a) 

In this clause: 

"family  and  domestic  violence" means violent,  threatening  or  other  abusive 
behaviour by a family member of an  employee that seeks to coerce or control 
the employee and that causes them harm or to be fearful. 

"family member" means: 
(i) 

a  spouse,  de  facto  partner,  child,  parent,  grandparent,  grandchild  or 
sibling of the employee; or 
a child, parent, grandparent, grandchild or sibling of a spouse or de facto 
partner of the employee; or 
a person  related to the employee according to Aboriginal  or Torres Strait 
Islander kinship rules. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(b) 

A  reference  to  a  spouse  or  de  facto  partner  in  the  definition  of family 
member in sub-clause 10.5.2(a) includes a former spouse or de facto partner. 

10.5.3 

Entitlement to Unpaid  Leave 

An  Employee  is  entitled  to  5  days'  unpaid  leave  to  deal  with  family  and  domestic 
violence, as follows: 

(a) 

(b) 
(c) 

the  leave  is  available  in  full  at  the  start  of  each  12  month  period  of  the 
employee's employment; and 
the leave does not accumulate from year to year; and 
is available in full to part-time and casual employees. 

Note:  1. A period of leave to deal with family and domestic violence may be  less than 
a day by agreement between the Employee and the Company. 

2. The  Company and  Employee  may agree that the  Employee  may take  more than 5 
days' unpaid leave to deal with family and domestic violence. 

10.5.4 

Taking Unpaid Leave 

An  Employee  may take unpaid  leave to deal  with family and  domestic violence  if the 
Employee: 

(a) 
(b) 

is experiencing family and domestic violence; and 
needs  to  do  something  to  deal  with  the  impact  of  the  family  and  domestic 
violence  and  it  is  impractical  for  the  Employee  to  do  that thing  outside  their 
ordinary hours of work. 

Note:  The  reasons  for  which  an  Employee  may  take 
include  making 
arrangements for their safety or the safety of a family member (including relocation), 
attending urgent court hearings, or accessing police services. 

leave 

10.5.5 

Service and Continuity 

The  time an  Employee  is  on  unpaid  leave to  deal  with  family and  domestic violence 
does not count as service but does not break the employee's continuity of service. 

26 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

10.5.6 

Notice and  Evidence Requirements 

(a)  Notice 

An  Employee  must  give  the  Company  notice  of  the  taking  of  leave  by  the 
Employee under this clause. 

The notice: 
(i) 

must be  given  to the  Company  as  soon  as  practicable  (which  may  be  a 
time after the leave has started); and 

(ii)  must advise the Company of the period, or expected period, of the leave. 

(b) 

Evidence 
An  Employee  who  has  given  the  Company  notice  of the taking of leave  under 
this clause  must,  if required  by the Company,  give the Company evidence that 
would  satisfy  a  reasonable  person  that  the  leave  is  taken  for  the  purpose 
specified in this sub-clause 10.5.6. 

Note:  Depending  on  the  circumstances  such  evidence  may  include  a  document 
issued  by  the  police  service,  a  court  or  a  family  violence  support  service,  or  a 
statutory declaration. 

10.5.7 

Confidentiality 

(a) 

The  Company must take steps to ensure information concerning any notice an 
Employee  has  given,  or evidence an  Employee  has  provided  under sub-clause 
10.5.6 is treated confidentially, as far as it is reasonably practicable to do so. 

(b)  Nothing  in  this  clause  prevents  the  Company  from  disclosing  information 
provided  by an  Employee  if the disclosure is  required  by an Australian  law or is 
necessary  to  protect  the  life,  health  or  safety  of  the  Employee  or  another 
person. 

Note:  Information  concerning  an  Employee's  experience  of  family  and  domestic 
violence  is  sensitive  and  if  mishandled  can  have  adverse  consequences  for  the 
Employee. The  Company should consult with such  Employees regarding the handling 
of this information. 

10.5.8 

Compliance 

An  Employee  is  not  entitled  to  take  leave  under  this  clause  unless  the  Employee 
complies with the provisions of this clause. 

10.6 

Parental Leave 

10.6.1 

An  Employee  will  be  entitled  to  Parental  Leave  (and  related  entitlements)  in 
accordance with the FW Act. 

10.7 

Long Service Leave 

10.7.1 

The  applicable  rate  of pay for  Long Service  Leave  will  be  the  corresponding  rate  of 
pay  in  the  relevant  Table  of  Appendix  2  of  this  Agreement  or  clause  5.6  Over 
Agreement Payments of this Agreement, whichever is the greater. 

27 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

10.8 

Leave Without Pay 

10.8.1 

An  Employee  wishing to take  any  leave  without  pay  must give the  Company at least 
one  (1)  week's  notice.  Leave  without  pay  will  only  be  approved  at the  Company's 
absolute discretion.  Leave  without pay  will  not be  considered  as time  in  service for 
the accrual of any form of leave including rostered days off where applicable. 

10.9 

Public Holidays 

10.9.1 

10.9.2 

10.9.3 

10.9.4 

A full-time  Employee shall  be  entitled to observe  public holidays without reduction  of 
ordinary  pay.  (No  payment  shall  be  made  for  Easter  Saturday  or  Easter  Sunday 
unless the Employee works on those days) 

A part-time Employee shall be  entitled to observe public holidays without reduction of 
pay where their ordinary hours of work fall on a public holiday. 

An  Employee  is  entitled  to  a  day  off  on  a  public  holiday,  subject  to  the  Company 
requesting an  Employee to work on  a particular public holiday. 

An  Employee  may  refuse  the  request  (and  take  the  day  off)  if  the  Employee  has 
reasonable grounds for doing so. 

10.9.5 

The following days are considered  public holidays: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

New Year's Day 
Australia  Day 
Good  Friday 
Easter Saturday 
Easter Sunday 
Easter Monday 
Anzac Day 
Christmas Day 
Boxing Day 
Queen's Birthday 
Labour Day 

10.9.6 

10.9.7 

10.9.8 

10.9.9 

And  any  other  day,  or  part-day,  declared  under  a  law  of a  State  or  Territory  to  be 
observed  generally within the State, Territory,  or a region  of the State or Territory,  as 
a public holiday. 

If an  Act  of Parliament or Proclamation  substitutes another day for any of the above 
named  public  holidays, the special  rates shall  only be  payable for work done  on  the 
day substituted. 

Where  an  Employee  is  absent from  their employment on  the working day  before,  or 
the  working  day  after  a  public  holiday,  they  shall  provide  a  Doctors  Certificate  or 
other acceptable evidence to support an application for such leave on the day. 

Employees in  receipt of pay for public holidays while receiving workers compensation 
benefits, shall be paid in  accordance with Clause 11.1.2. 

Public  holidays  may  be  substituted  for  alternative  days  by  agreement  between  the 
Company and  Employees. Where an alternative day is substituted for a public holiday 
in  accordance  with  this  clause,  penalty  rates  will  only  be  payable  if  an  Employee 
works on the alternative day. 

28 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

10.9.10  Where  any  day  other  than  those  listed  in  clause  10.9.5  is  gazetted  as  a  public 
holiday  in  the  area  in  which  the  Employee  works,  that  day  will  be  regarded  as  a 
normal  working  day  and  an  additional  one  and  a  half day's  paid  leave  during the 
Christmas-New year period will  be substituted. 

10.9.11  Where  a holiday  is  gazetted  in  addition to the  public  holiday's  prescribed  in  Clause 
10.9.5 of this Agreement and such additional holiday is a half day holiday in the area 
in  which the Employee works, that half day will  be  regarded  as a normal working day 
and  an  additional  days  paid  leave  during  the  Christmas-New  year  period  will  be 
substituted. 

11. 

INSURANCE 

11.1 

Workers Compensation 

11.1.1 

11.1.2 

An  Employee  entitled to worker's compensation  payments will  be  paid  their relevant 
base rate of pay in accordance with the relevant State/Territory legislation. 

Where  an  Employee  is  absent  from  work  and  receiving  workers  compensation 
benefits and such absence falls over a Public Holiday,  payment for the Public Holiday 
shall be made by the Workers Compensation Insurer or the Company, but not both. 

12. 

TERMINATION 

12.1 

Notice of Termination (Daily Hire Employees) 

12.1.1 

The following provisions shall apply to full-time or part-time daily hire Employees: 

12.1.2 

12.1.3 

12.1.4 

12.1.5 

12.1.6 

One  day's notice of termination of employment will  be given  on  either side or one (1) 
day's pay will be paid  or forfeited  in  lieu of notice. 

Notice  given  at or  before  the  usual  starting time  of any  ordinary  working  day  shall 
expire at the completion of that day's work. 

Payment  in  lieu  of  notice  shall  be  at  the  ordinary  hourly  rate  of  pay  only  (as 
prescribed  by  this  Agreement).  It  shall  not  include  payment  for  superannuation, 
redundancy or any other remuneration  prescribed  by this Agreement. 

Nothing  in  this  clause  affects  the  Company's  ability  to  summarily  dismiss  an 
Employee  without notice  in  accordance with  Clause  12.4 Summary Dismissal  of this 
Agreement. 

The  Company shall  pay any termination  entitlements by  cheque or  by funds transfer 
into the  Employee's  nominated  account with  a  bank  or financial  institution  no  later 
than five (5) days after the date of termination. 

12.2 

Notice of Termination (Casual Employees) 

12.2.1 

Termination  of all  casual  engagements  shall  require  one  (1)  hour's notice  on  either 
side or the payment or forfeiture of one (1) hour's pay, as the case may be. 

29 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

12.2.2 

The  Company may advise a casual  Employee that their services are  not required the 
next day,  or  until  advised  by the Company.  This  advice  must be  given  on  a  day that 
the  Employee  works,  before  the  Employee  ceases  duty.  Such  advice  constitutes 
notice of termination for the purposes of this Agreement. 

12.3 

Abandonment of Employment 

12.3.1 

12.3.2 

12.3.3 

12.3.4 

Absence  of  a  full-time  or  part-time  Employee  from  work  for  a  continuous  period 
exceeding three  working  days  without the  consent  of the  Company  shall  be  prima 
facie evidence that the Employee has abandoned their employment. 

The  Company  shall  send  a  letter,  by  registered  post,  to  the  Employee's  address 
requiring the Employee  provide a valid  reason for the absence within  a period  of five 
(5)  working days from the date of the letter. Alternatively, the Company may contact 
the  Employee  by  email  or  other  electronic  means,  extending  the  same  five  (5) 
working days period to respond. 

If the Employee fails to establish to the Company's satisfaction that they were absent 
for  reasonable  cause,  the  Employee  shall  be  deemed  to  have  abandoned  their 
employment. 

The  abandonment of employment  by  the  Employee  shall  be  deemed  to take  effect 
from the date of last attendance, or the date of the last absence for which  Company 
consent was given. 

12.3.5 

In such circumstances, a full-time (or part-time) Employee shall  be entitled to be paid 
in lieu of notice in accordance with clause 12.1 of this Agreement. 

12.4 

Summary Dismissal 

12.4.1 

12.4.2 

12.4.3 

Nothing in  this  clause  affects the Company's ability to  dismiss an  Employee  without 
notice  for  unreasonable  refusal  of  duty,  gross  negligence,  or  other  misconduct 
sufficiently serious for the Company to treat the  Employee's conduct as  repudiation 
of the employment contract, bringing the contract to an  end. 

In  such  circumstances,  payment shall  be  made  up to the time  of dismissal only and 
no notice is payable. 

The  circumstances where summary dismissal  may be  warranted  include but are  not 
limited to: 

(a)  wilful  or  deliberate  behaviour  by  an  Employee  that  is  inconsistent  with  the 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 
(e) 

the health or safety of a person; or 
the reputation, viability or profitability of the Company's business. 

continuation of the contract of employment; 
conduct that causes serious and  imminent risk to: 
(i) 
(ii) 
an  Employee,  in the course of their employment, engaging in: 
theft; or 
(i) 
(ii) 
fraud; or 
(iii)  assault; 
an  Employee being intoxicated or under the influence of illicit drugs at work; 
an  Employee  refusing to  carry  out a  lawful  and  reasonable  instruction  that  is 
consistent with the Employee's contract of employment. 

30 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

12.5 

Consultation Arrangements 

12.5.1 

This term applies if the Company: 

(a) 

(b) 

has  made  a  definite  decision  to  introduce  a  major  change  to  production, 
program, organisation, structure, or technology in  relation to its enterprise that 
is likely to have a significant effect on the Employees; 
proposes to introduce a change to the regular roster or ordinary hours of work 
of Employees. 

12.5.2 

For a major change referred to in clause 12.5.1(a): 

12.5.3 

12.5.4 

(a) 

(b) 

the  Company  must notify the  relevant  Employees  of the  decision  to  introduce 
the major change; and 
subclauses 12.5.3 to 12.5.9 apply. 

The  relevant  Employees  may  appoint  a  representative  for  the  purposes  of  the 
procedures in this term. 

If: 

(a) 

(b) 

a  relevant  Employee(s)  appoints  a  representative  for  the  purposes  of 
consultation; and 
the  Employee  or  Employees  advise  the  Company  of  the  identity  of  the 
representative; the Company must recognise the representative. 

12.5.5 

As soon as  practicable after making its decision, the Company must: 

(a) 

(b) 

discuss with the relevant Employees: 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

the introduction of the change; and 
the effect the change is likely to have on the Employees; and 
the  measures  the  Company  is  taking  to  avert  or  mitigate  the  adverse 
effect of the change on the Employees; and 

for  the  purposes  of  the  discussion,  provide 
Employees; 
(i) 

all  relevant  information  about  the  change  including  the  nature  of  the 
change proposed; and 
information about the expected  effects of the change  on the  Employees' 
and 
any other matters likely to affect the Employees. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

in  writing,  to  the  relevant 

12.5.6 

12.5.7 

12.5.8 

However,  the  Company  is  not  required  to  disclose  confidential  or  commercially 
sensitive information to the relevant Employees. 

The  Company  must give  prompt and  genuine  consideration  to  matters  raised  about 
the major change to the relevant Employees. 

If a  term  in  this  Agreement  provides  for  a  major  change  to  production,  program, 
organisation,  structure  or technology  in  relation  to  the  enterprise  of the  Company, 
the  requirements  set  out  in  clause  12.5.2  (a)  and  clauses  12.5.3  and  12.5.5  are 
taken not to apply. 

31 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

12.5.9 

In  this term,  a  major change  is  likely to  have  a significant  effect  on  Employees  if it 
results in: 

the termination of the employment of Employees; or 

(a) 
(b)  major  change  to  the  composition,  operation  or  size  of  the  Company's 

workforce or to the skills required of Employees; or 
the  elimination  or  diminution  of job  opportunities  (including opportunities for 
promotion or tenure); or 
the alteration of hours of work; or 
the need to retain  Employees; or 
the need to relocate Employees to another workplace; or 
the restructuring of jobs. 

(c) 

(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 

12.5.10 

Change to regular roster or ordinary hours of work: 

For a change referred to in paragraph 12.5.1(b); 

(a) 
(b) 

the Company must notify the relevant Employees of the proposed change; and 
clauses 12.5.11 and  12.5.15 apply. 

12.5.11 

The  relevant  Employees  may  appoint  a  representative  for  the  purposes  of  the 
procedures in this term. 

12.5.12 

If: 

(a) 

(b) 

a  relevant  Employee(s)  appoint  a  representative 
consultation; and 
the  Employee  or  Employees  advise  the  Company  of  the  identity  of  the 
representative; the Company must recognise the representative. 

for  the  purposes  of 

12.5.13 

As soon as practicable after proposing to introduce change, the Company must: 

(a) 
(b) 

(c) 

discuss with the relevant Employees the introduction of the change; and 
for the purposes of the discussion - provide to the relevant Employees; 
(i) 

all  relevant  information  about  the  change,  including the  nature  of the 
change;and 
information  about  what  the  Company  reasonably  believes  will  be  the 
effects of the change on the Employees; and 
information  about  any  other  matters  that  the  Company  reasonably 
believes are likely to affect the Employees; and 

(ii) 

(iii) 

invite  the  relevant  Employees  to  give  their  views  about  the  impact  of  the 
family  or  caring 
change 
responsibilities). 

(including  any 

relation 

impact 

their 

to 

in 

12.5.14 

However,  the  Company  is  not  required  to  disclose  confidential  or  commercially 
sensitive information to the relevant Employees. 

12.5.15 

The  Company  must give  prompt and  genuine consideration  to  matters  raised  about 
the change by the relevant Employees. 

12.5.16 

In  this  term  relevant  Employees  means  the  Employees  who  may  be  affected  by  a 
change referred to in clause 12.5.1. 

32 

13. 

13.1 

13.2 

13.3 

13.4 

13.5 

13.6 

13.7 

13.8 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

REDUNDANCY/ SEVERANCE 

This clause shall apply to full-time and  part-time daily hire Employees. 

For  the  purpose  of this  clause,  redundancy  means  a situation  where  an  Employee 
ceases  to  be  employed  by  the  Company,  other  than  for  reasons  of  misconduct  or 
refusal of duty. 

The Company shall provide Employees with one  (1) day's notice of redundancy or pay 
in  lieu of such  notice. 

In addition to the period of notice prescribed above, an  Employee whose employment 
is  terminated  by  reason  of  redundancy  shall  be  entitled  to  severance  pay  in 
accordance with the following table: 

Period of continuous service with the 

Redundancy/ Severance Pay 

Company 

Less than 1 year 

1 year or more but less than 2 years 

2 years or more but less than 3 years 

3 years or more but less than 4 years 

1.75  hours  pay  for  each  completed  week  of 
service 
2.4 weeks  pay  plus for all  service  in  excess  of 1 
year,  1.75  hours  pay  per  completed  week  of 
service up to a maximum of 4.8 weeks'  pay 
4.8 weeks  pay  plus, for all  service  in  excess of 2 
years,  1.6  hours  pay  per  completed  week  of 
service up to a maximum of 7 weeks' pay 
7  weeks  pay  plus,  for  all  service  in  excess  of 3 
years,  0. 73  hours  pay  per  completed  week  of 
service up to a maximum of 8 weeks' pay 

4 years or more 

8 weeks pay 

An  Employee  employed  for  less  than  12  months  will  be  entitled  to  a  redundancy 
/severance  payment of 1.75 hours  per week  of service  if,  and  only if,  redundancy is 
occasioned otherwise than by the Employee. 

A weeks'  pay is  defined as 38 hours at the Employees'  rate  of pay as  provided  in this 
Agreement without any allowances. 

A part-time Employee will  be entitled to payment on a pro-rata basis. 

The above redundancy provisions do not apply in any of the following circumstances: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Where  an  incoming  Company  offers  to  continue  the  employment  of  the 
Employee; 
Where the Company transfers the Employee to a related Company and ensures 
continuity of service; 
Where  employment  is  terminated  as  a  consequence  of conduct that justifies 
instant dismissal,  including malingering,  inefficiency,  misconduct or  neglect of 
duty, or 
Where the Employee is a casual  Employee, Apprentice or a trainee engaged for 
a specific period of time or for a specific task or tasks. 

33 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

WORK HEALTH AND SAFETY 

The  parties to this Agreement are  committed to the safe operation of machinery and 
equipment,  to  the  observance  of  safe  working  practices,  the  proper  use  of  all 
personal  safety equipment and to the safety and  health  of all  Employees  and  other 
persons who  may enter the workplace. 

Smoking is not permitted inside Company premises (including toilets) or vehicles. 

Employees  should  immediately  notify  Company  management  by  completion  of the 
relevant form  if they injure themselves at work or subsequently become aware of any 
injury or disease that they may have sustained during the course of employment with 
the Company. 

DRUGS AND ALCOHOL 

This clause shall be  read  in conjunction with the Building Code 2016. 

Under no circumstances will  any Employee affected  by alcohol and/or any other drug 
be  permitted to work and/or operate any equipment on a work site. 

If an  Employee is affected by alcohol and/or any other drug and  is consequently sent 
home from a worksite to recover, such  Employee will  not be  paid for any lost time. 

The  parties to this Agreement agree that no  alcohol  or  drugs  will  be  permitted  on  a 
work site or whilst using Company vehicles, plant or equipment. 

An  Employee  who  is  taking prescription  medication  is  responsible  for  ensuring that 
the  medication  prescribed  will  not  affect  their  ability  to  work  safely.  Where  an 
Employee  is  taking prescription  medication that may  adversely affect their ability to 
undertake  any  kind  of  work  safely,  the  Employee  will  advise  their  Supervisor  or 
Management so the risks can  be managed. 

Where  an  Employee  is  found  to  be  affected  by  alcohol  and/or any  other  drug,  the 
Company may take disciplinary action under clause 4.6 of this Agreement. 

To  ensure  the  maintenance  of this  policy  and  compliance  with  Work  Health  and 
Safety  requirements,  Employees  may  be  subject to  alcohol  and/or  any  other  drug 
testing.  Any  program  of  testing  will  be  introduced  following  consultation  with  the 
Company's Employees. 

EQUIPMENT AND APPAREL 

Protective and Working Clothing 

The  Company  shall  provide  appropriate  personal  protective  equipment  required  by 
Employees when carrying out their work. 

Equipment and  clothing shall  be  replaced  by the Company  on  the  basis  of fair wear 
and tear. 

14. 

14.1 

14.2 

14.3 

15. 

15.1 

15.2 

15.3 

15.4 

15.5 

15.6 

15.7 

16. 

16.1 

16.1.1 

16.1.2 

34 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

16.1.3 

16.1.4 

The  Company  may  require  that old  items  of apparel  are  presented  for  inspection  if 
required,  prior to replacement. 

Employees are expected to wear Company provided clothing and  maintain it in  a tidy 
manner, so as to display a professional Company image. 

16.2 

Supply of Vehicles 

16.2.1 

The  Company  may  provide full-time  Employees  with  a serviced  motor vehicle for the 
purposes of: -

• 
• 
• 

• 

Travel between their place of residence and work sites; 
Transfer from site to site during working hours; 
Carriage  of  other  Employees,  Company  equipment  or  working  materials  as 
required; and, 
Other purposes authorised by the Company. 

The Company shall  ensure that the motor vehicle  provided  is registered,  insured and 
is  in  a  fully  roadworthy  condition  when  it  is  provided  to  an  Employee  for  use  in 
accordance  with  this  clause.  The  Company  shall  pay  for  the  cost  of  fuel,  oil  and 
lubricants, other consumables, and maintenance for fair wear and tear. 

An  Employee supplied with a vehicle is  required to comply at all times with applicable 
laws, and  shall  exercise due care  in  overall  use  of the Company vehicle provided,  as 
well as in  its garaging and security. 

An  Employee  supplied  with  a vehicle  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps to  ensure  that 
the  vehicle  is  appropriately  cleaned  and  maintained.  Repairs  to  a  vehicle  for  wear 
and tear that is above and  beyond a level  reasonable for the industry shall be the full 
responsibility of the Employee. 

Company Owned Tools and Equipment 

Where an  Employee  is supplied with Company owned equipment and/ or tools, such 
equipment/ tools, shall be the sole responsibility of the Employee. 

It is  agreed  that Employees  covered  by  this  Agreement shall  carry  Company  owned 
tools between sites without penalty to the Company. 

The  Company may deduct from  an  Employee's wages the cost of replacement of any 
Company  owned  tool  /  equipment  for  which  the  Employee  assigned  the  tools  / 
equipment cannot account for.  Any  deduction  must  be  authorised  in  writing  by  the 
Employee. 

16.2.2 

16.2.3 

16.2.4 

16.3 

16.3.1 

16.3.2 

16.3.3 

17. 

17.1 

ANTI-DISCRIMINATION 

It is agreed that: 

(a) 

The  parties  will  achieve  a  principal  object of the  FW  Act,  which  is  to  respect 
and  value  the  diversity  of the  workforce  by  helping to  prevent  and  eliminate 
discrimination  at their enterprise on  the  basis  of age,  race,  colour, sex,  sexual 
preference,  physical  or mental  disability,  marital status, family responsibilities, 
pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin; 

35 

(b) 

(c) 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

Any dispute concerning this clause and  its operation  may be  progressed  under 
the dispute resolution procedure in this agreement. 

Nothing in this clause: 
(i) 

(ii) 

limits the ability of the  parties to this Agreement to  exercise their rights 
under applicable Commonwealth, State or Territory legislation, or 
allows  any  treatment  that  would  otherwise  be  prohibited  by  anti 
discrimination provisions in  applicable Commonwealth, State or Territory 
legislation. 

18. 

SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 

18.1 

If a dispute relates to: 

(a) 
(b) 

a matter arising under the agreement; or 
the NES; 

this term sets out procedures to settle the dispute. 

18.2 

18.3 

18.4 

An  Employee  who  is  a  party  to  the  dispute  may  appoint  a  representative  for  the 
purposes of the procedures in this term. 

In  the first instance, the parties to the dispute must try to  resolve the dispute at the 
workplace  level,  by  discussions  between  the  Employee  or  Employees  and  relevant 
supervisors and/ or management. 

If discussions at the workplace level do not resolve the dispute, a party to the dispute 
may refer the matter to the FWC. 

18.5 

The  FWC  may deal with the dispute in 2 stages: 

(a) 

(b) 

the  FWC  will  first  attempt to  resolve  the  dispute  as  it considers  appropriate, 
including  by  mediation,  conciliation,  expressing  an  opinion  or  making  a 
recommendation; and 
if the  FWC  is  unable  to  resolve  the  dispute  at the  first  stage,  the  FWC  may 
then: 
(i) 
(ii) 

arbitrate the dispute; and 
make a determination that is  binding on the parties. 

Note: 

If  the  FWC  arbitrates  the  dispute,  it  may  also  use  the  powers  that  are 
available to it under the Act. 

A decision that FWC  makes when  arbitrating a dispute  is  a decision for the purpose 
of  Div  3  of  Part  5.1  of the  Act.  Therefore,  an  appeal  may  be  made  against  the 
decision. 

18.6 

While the parties are trying to resolve the dispute using the procedures in this term: 

(a) 

an  Employee  must  continue  to  perform  their  work  as  they  would  normally 
unless they have  a reasonable  concern  about an  imminent risk to their health 
or safety; and 

36 

360 Personnel Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

(b) 

an  Employee  must comply  with  a  direction  given  by  the  Company  to  perform 
other available work at the same workplace, or at another workplace, unless: 
(i) 
(ii) 

the work is  not safe; or 
applicable  work  health  and  safety legislation  would  not permit the  work 
to be performed; or 
the work is not appropriate for the Employee to perform; or 
there are other reasonable grounds for the Employee to refuse to comply 
with the direction. 

(iii) 
(iv) 

18.7 

18.8 

The  parties  to  the  dispute  agree  to  be  bound  by  a  decision  made  by  the  FWC  in 
accordance with this term. 

In  discharging its role  and  exercising its powers under this procedure, the FWC  must 
not determine an outcome that is inconsistent with the Building Code  2016. 

37 

360 Personnel Ply Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

19. 

19.1 

19.2 

ENDORSEMENT OF AGREEMENT 

The  parties  recognise  that  each  has  a  responsibility  to  ensure  the  successful 
operation  of  this  Agreement.  The  signatures  below  testify  the  fact  that  the 
Agreement has been  endorsed by the Parties. 

This Agreement is made on this __ 7-~th~-- day of  Ar": \ 

2020. 

Executed for and on  behalf of the Company: 

Signed:  L---

Director's ~e :  __ ft_cuJ ___ e_v....,;,,_1_·~_d ___ -_O_,_·re_ __ l,_lo._v ______ _ 

Address of Director: C/-

Suite 1 /  Level 4 /  402 - 410 Chapel  Road  BANKSTOWN  NSW  2200 

Signed by the Witness: 

Signed: ___  :S_l _ _ ~- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
...._-=------------------
Name of Witness: - - -~--'-____ Aj_.....,_.Ju,-
Address of Witness: C/- Suite 1/ Level 4 /  402 - 410 Chapel  Road  BANKSTOWN  NSW  2200 

Signed by the Employee Bargaining Representative: 

Signed:  ~ ~ 
Name of Employee and Job Title:  M iid:H~ .. \ l  bf; f S. O'(\. 

Address of Employee: C/- Suite 1 /  Level 4 /  402 - 410 Chapel  Road  BANKSTOWN  NSW  2200 

Signed by the Witness: 

Signed: ___ ~=-_L_v~  _ ___ ___________________  _ 

.__:_ 7,;n ,.,,;: ~ 

Name of Witness: ___  S:~Ot=...--~~-i.~~~~---------------

Address of Witness : C/- Suite 1 /  Level 4 /  402 - 410 Chapel  Road  BANKSTOWN  NSW  2200 

38 

APPENDIX 1. - AGREEMENT CLASSIFICATIONS 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

Agreement 

Classifications 

Award  Equivalent 

Classifications 

Level  1 
Level  2 

CW1(c) 
CW1{d) 

Level  3 

Level  4 

CW2 

CW3 

Level  5 

CW4 

Description 

General  labourer (other than as specified) 
Labourer  (3)  - Trades  Labourer,  Jack  Hammerman,  Mixer 
Driver  (concrete),  Gantry  Hand  or  Crane  Hand,  Crane 
Chaser,  Cement  Gun  Operator  (except  in  Vic),  Concrete 
Cutting  or  Drilling  Machine  Operator,  Concrete  Gang 
including Concrete Floater (as defined), Roofer 
Plasterer's Assistant 
Terrazzo Assistant 
Stonemason's  Assistant  (including  assistant  in  factory  in 
NSW) 
Labourer  (2)  - Scaffolder  (as  defined),  Powder  Monkey, 
Hoist  or  Winch  Driver,  Foundation  Shaftsworker  (as 
defined),  Steel  Fixer  including  Tack  Welder,  Concrete 
Finisher (as defined) 
Artificial  Stoneworker,  Carpenter  and  /  or  Joiner,  Bridge 
and Wharf Carpenter,  Floorsander (Tas),  Marble and Slate 
Worker, Stonemason 
Caster,  Fixer,  Floorlayer Specialist, Plasterer 
Bricklayer, Tilelayer (NSW) 
Roof Tiler, Slate Ridger,  Roof Fixer 
Painter, Glazier (except Vic) 
Shophand 
Quarryworker 
Labourer (1)  - Rigger,  Dogger 
Machinist 
Operator Group A 

Marker or Setter Out 
Artificial  Stoneworker,  Carpenter  and  /  or  Joiner,  Bridge 
and  Wharf  Carpenter,  Marble  and  Slate  Worker, 
Stonemason 
Bricklayer, Tilelayer 
Caster,  Fixer,  Floorlayer Specialist,  Plasterer 
Roof Tiler, Slate Ridger,  Roof Fixer 
Painter, Glazier 
Letter Cutter 
Signwriter 
Operator Group B 

'I'---

Level  6 

CW5 

Level  7 
Level  8 

Level9 

CW6 
CW7 

CW8 

Carver 
Special Class Tradesperson 
Carpenter/ Joiner 
Bricklayer 
Plasterer 
Stonemason 
Operator Groups C,  D and  E 
Operator Groups F and G 
Sub Foreperson (Bridge and Wharf Carpenter) 
Operator Group H 
Crane Driver NSW 
Carpenter-Diver 
Foreperson (Bridge and Wharf Carpenter) 

Note:  Movement between classification levels is at the discretion of the Company.  Should any 
dispute  arise  regarding the  classification  levels  described  above,  the  provisions  of the 
Settlement of Disputes clause of this Agreement shall apply. 

39 

360 Personnel  Pty Ltd  Enterprise Agreement 2020 - 2024 

APPENDIX 2  - WAGE RATES 

The  following  rates  in  Table  A are  the  base  rates  of pay,  inclusive of special  allowance,  industry 
allowance  follow-the-job  loading and  tool  allowances  payable  pursuant to  the  reference  award. 
They shall apply over the life of the Agreement for the calculation of Employee remuneration, and 
for any  calculation  of Employee  redundancy  pay,  public  holiday  pay,  personal  leave  and  annual 
leave  entitlements.  These  base  rates  of pay shall  be  used  to  calculate  overtime  payments  and 
the 25% loading for casual  Employees. 

Note: 

Start Rates  identified in the Wage  Rates Tables  below are applicable and  payable seven 
(7)  days  after the  Fair  Work  Commission  approves  the  Agreement.  Subsequent wage 
rate  increases  identified  in  the Tables  below  shall  apply  on  and  from  the  beginning  of 
the first full  pay period to commence on or after the date identified. 

Table A Daily Hire Employees 

Agreement 

Classifications 

Start Rates 

Per Hour 

1July 2021 

Per Hour 

1July 2022 

Per Hour 

1July 2023 

Per Hour 

1July 2024 

Per Hour 

Level  1 
Level  2 
Level3 
Level4 
Level  5 
Level  6 
Level  7 
Level8 
Level  9 

$ 

23.18 
23.59 
24.06 
25.61 
26.35 
27.10 
26.89 
28.51 
36.76 

$ 

23.88 
24.30 
24.74 
26.38 
27.14 
27.91 
27.70 
29.37 
37.86 

$ 

24.60 
25.03 
25.52 
27.17 
27.95 
28.75 
28.53 
30.25 
39.00 

$ 

25.34 
25.78 
26.29 
27.99 
28.79 
29.61 
29.39 
31.16 
40.17 

$ 

26.10 
26.55 
27.08 
28.83 
29.65 
30.50 
30.27 
32.09 
41.38 

Table B Casual Employees 

Agreement 

Classifications 

Start Rates 

Per Hour 

1July 2021 

Per Hour 

1July 2022 

Per Hour 

1July 2023 

Per Hour 

1July 2024 

Per Hour 

Level  1 
Level  2 
Level3 
Level4 
Level5 
Level6 
Level  7 
Level8 
Level9 

$ 

28.98 
29.49 
30.08 
32.01 
34.94 
33.88 
33.61 
35.64 
45.95 

$ 

29.85 
30.38 
30.93 
32.98 
33.93 
34.89 
34.63 
36.71 
47.33 

$ 

30.75 
31.29 
31.90 
33.96 
34.94 
35.94 
35.66 
37.81 
48.75 

$ 

31.68 
32.23 
32.86 
34.99 
35.99 
37.01 
36.74 
38.95 
50.21 

$ 

32.63 
33.19 
33.85 
36.04 
37.06 
38.13 
37.84 
40.11 
51.73 

40 

