[2020] FWCA 2374

DECISION
Fair Work Act 2009 
s.185—Enterprise agreement

Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd
(AG2020/738)

FairWork 

Commission 

ADEPT PLANT HIRE PTY LTD ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT 2020
Building, metal and civil construction industries

DEPUTY PRESIDENT BOYCE

SYDNEY, 7 MAY 2020

Application for approval of the Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd Enterprise Agreement 2020.

[1]
An application has been made for approval of an enterprise agreement to be known as 
the Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd Enterprise Agreement 2020 (Agreement). The application was 
made pursuant to s.185 of the Fair Work Act 2009 (Act). It has been made by Adept Plant 
Hire Pty Ltd (Employer). The Agreement is a single enterprise agreement.

Application brought out of time

[2]
I note that the Agreement was made on 28 February 2020, but was filed for approval 
with the Fair  Work Commission on 17  March 2020. Observing that s.185(3)(a) of the  Act 
imposes  is  a  14-day  time  limit  to  bring  an  application  of  this  kind  (and  that  the  time  is 
measured  by  reference  to  the  day  an  agreement  is  made),  the  Applicant  has  brought  this 
application four days out of time. 

[3]
Despite the Applicant’s non-compliance in this regard, I find that it is fair to extend 
the period for making the application by four days. I do so in reliance of the power afforded to 
me by s.185(3)(b) of the Act, and having had regard to all of the circumstances (namely, that 
the delay is of a short duration, and has not caused prejudice to any employees seeking to be 
covered by the Agreement).

Undertakings

[4]
The  Employer  has  provided  written  undertakings  dated  28  April  2020.  Those 
undertakings  are  attached  at  Annexure  A to  this  decision  and  become  terms  of  the 
Agreement.  I  am  satisfied  that  the  undertakings  will  not  cause  financial  detriment  to  any 
employee covered by the Agreement (as compared to the relevant provisions of the Building 
and Construction General On-site Award 2010), and that the undertakings will not result in 
substantial changes to the Agreement.

Conclusion

1

[2020] FWCA 2374

[5]
Subject  to  the  undertakings  referred  to  above,  I  am  satisfied  that  each  of  the 
requirements of ss.186, 187, 188 and 190 of the Act, as are relevant to this application for 
approval, have been met.

I am satisfied the more beneficial entitlements of the NES will prevail where there is 

[6]
an inconsistency between the Agreement and the NES.

The Agreement is approved and, in accordance with s.54 of the Act, will operate from 

[7]
14 May 2020. The nominal expiry date of the Agreement is 31 January 2024.

DEPUTY PRESIDENT

Printed by authority of the Commonwealth Government Printer

<AE507983  PR719158>

2

[2020] FWCA 2374

Annexure A

IN  THE  FAIR WORK  COMMISSION 

FWC  Matter  No.: 
AG2020/738 

Applicant: 

Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd 

Section 185 - Application for approval of a single enterprise agreement 

Undertaking- Section 190 

I,  Kevin  Jones,  Director for Adept  Plant  Hire  Pty  Ltd  give the following  undertakings  with 
respect to  the Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd Enterprise Agreement 2020 ("the Agreement"): 

I have  the  authority  given  to  me  by  Adept  Plant  Hire  Pty  Ltd  to  provide  this  undertaking  in 
relation to the application before the Fair Work Commission. 

1.  Clause 5.1.2 - Engagement 

The Applicant undertakes to apply the following in addition to Clause 5.1.2 - Engagement: 

All hours worked in excess of a parl-time employee's agreed weekly or daily hours 
shall be paid at the applicable overlime rates in  Clause 7.2.1. 

These  undertakings  are  provided  on  the  basis  of  issues  raised  by  the  Fair  Work 
Commission in the application before the Fair Work Commission. 

Signature 

Date:  28 April 2020 

1 

3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd 
Enterprise Agreement 2020 

1.  Parties to the agreement 
 
The parties to the agreement will be as follows: 
 

•  Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd (the Employer); and 
•  The  employees  of  Adept  Plant  Hire  Pty  Ltd engaged  in  the  classifications  contained 

herein. 

 

2.  Application of Agreement 
 
This agreement will apply to the employer and to their employees in the performance of all work 
in or in connection with employer’s business in civil construction, earthmoving, plant hire and 
related works. 
 
Civil  construction  works  shall  include,  but  not  restricted,  to  the  construction,  alteration, 
installation, and maintenance of; 
 

•  Water supply and sewerage 
•  Roads, bridges and wharves 
•  Dams 
•  Railways 
•  Subdivisions and site development work. 
•  Earthworks and land clearing 
•  Civil Engineering Infrastructure projects 

 
3.  Duration of Agreement   
 
The agreement shall apply from seven (7) days after the date of lodgement with the Fair Work 
Commission until 31 January 2024.  
 
4.  Purpose of Agreement 
 
The  purpose  of  the  Agreement  is  to  provide  comprehensively  the  wages  and  conditions  of 
employment for the work performed described herein. The Agreement is a stand-alone document 
and  applies  to  the  exclusion  of  the  Building  and  Construction  General  On-site  Award  2010, 
except as provided by specific reference in this Agreement.  
 
This  agreement  will  be  read  and  interpreted  in  conjunction  with  the  National  Employment 
Standards (NES). Where there is an inconsistency between this agreement and the NES, and the 
NES provides a greater benefit, the NES provision will apply to the extent of the inconsistency.   
 
5.  Contract of Employment 
 
5.1. Engagement 
 
The employment shall be either full time, part-time or casual. The employee will be notified at 
the time of engagement of the employment status.  
 
5.1.1.  A full-time employee shall mean an employee engaged for 38 hours per week.  

5.1.2.  Part-time employees shall be entitled to the same entitlements of a full-time employee on 

 

 

 

a pro-rata basis. Part-time employees shall be engaged on a regular basis of less than 38 
hours per week.  

Before commencing a period of part-time employment, the employee and Employer will 
agree in writing: 

•  That the employee may work part-time;  
•  Upon the hours to be worked by the employee, the days upon which the hours 

will be worked and commencing times for the work;  

•  Upon the classification applying to the work to be performed; and  
•  Upon the period of part-time employment. 
 

5.1.3.  Casual employees meaning employees engaged as such will receive the rates prescribed 
in Clause 6.1 as their ordinary rate. This rate includes a loading of 25% to compensate 
for  all  special  skills  and/or  disabilities  and/or  special  rates,  annual  leave,  sick  leave, 
notice, redundancy and any other full-time entitlements that do not apply to casuals. A 
casual employee shall be entitled to payment for a minimum of four (4) hours’ work per 
engagement.  There  shall  be  no  restriction  on  the  engagement  or  tenure  of  casual 
employees. 
 

including  but  not  restricted 

All permanent employees will be subject to a 6-month probation period. 
 
Employees  shall  be  multi-skilled  and  work  in  a  completely  flexible  workplace  not  only  to 
increase productivity but also to provide employees with more satisfying and challenging jobs 
and  enhance  their  career  growth  opportunities.    All  employees  will  be  required  to  perform  a 
diverse  range  of  functions 
to  construction,  fabrication, 
manufacturing, technical, services and general support 
 
There  shall  be  no  demarcation  or  restrictions  between  functions  or  organisational  status 
including between traditional crafts, occupations, or vocations or callings. 
 
An employee may be required to, and shall perform, any function providing the employee has 
the required expertise to safely discharge the requisite and provided that, such functions shall be 
subject to safe, legal and practical work practices. 
 
The level of flexibility and skill is comprehended in the wage rates for each classification.  
 
5.2. Casual Conversion   

 

5.2.1.  A casual employee, other than an irregular casual employee, who has been engaged by 
the Employer for a sequence of periods of employment under this Agreement during a 
period of 12 months, thereafter has the right to elect to have their contract of employment 
converted to full-time or part-time employment if the employment is to continue beyond 
the conversion process.  

 
5.2.2.  An  irregular  casual  employee  is  one  who  has  been  engaged  to  perform  work  on  an 

 

occasional or non-systematic or irregular basis. 
 

5.2.3.  The Employer shall provide an eligible employee notice in writing of the provisions of 
Clause 5.2 within four weeks of the employee having attained such period of 12 months. 
The  employee  retains  their  right  of  election  under  Clause  5.2  if  the  employer  fails  to 

comply with the clause. 
 

5.2.4.  Any such casual employee who does not within four weeks of receiving written notice 
elect  to  convert  their  contract  of  employment  to  full-time  or  part-time  employment  is 
deemed to have elected against any such conversion. 
 

5.2.5.  Any casual employee who has a right to elect under Clause 5.2, on receiving notice or 
after the expiry of the time for giving such notice, may give four weeks’ notice in writing 
to the Employer that they seek to elect to convert their contract of employment to full-
time  or  part-time  employment,  and  within  four  weeks  of  receiving  such  notice  the 
Employer must consent to or refuse the election but must not unreasonably refuse. 

 
5.3. Termination 
 
A permanent employee’s termination shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Building 
and Construction General On-site Award 2010. The period of notice to be given (or be paid in 
lieu) by the Employer shall be as follows: 
 

Where  the  employee’s  period  of  continuous  service  with 
that employer is: 
Up to 1 year 
1 year or more but less than 3 years 
3 years or more but less than 5 years 
5 years or more 

The 
notice is: 
1 week 
2 weeks 
3 weeks 
4 weeks 

period 

of 

 

 
This period of notice shall be increased by one week where the employee is over 45 years of age 
and has completed two years of continuous service with the employer. 
 
The period of notice to be given by the employee shall be the same as the Employer except for 
the  additional  notice  for  being  over  45,  in  accordance  with  the  Building  and  Construction 
General On-site Award 2010.  
 
Payment  in  lieu  of  notice  shall  be  made  if  the  appropriate  notice  period  is  not  given.    The 
employment  may  be  terminated  by  part  of  the  period  of  notice  and  part  payment  in  lieu.  
Payment in lieu of notice shall be at the employee’s ordinary weekly wage for the ordinary hours 
not worked by the employee during the period of notice. Nothing in this clause shall affect the 
right of the employer to summarily dismiss an employee for conduct that justifies this action. 
 
5.4. Redundancy  
 
Redundancy shall be in accordance with the National Employment Standards and the Fair Work 
Act 2009 (Cth).  
 
The  liability  for  payments  arising  in  terms  of  this  clause  on  the  Employer  can  be  offset  or 
partially  offset  by  any  payments  made  on  behalf  of  an  employee  to  a  recognised  redundancy 
fund. 
 
5.5. Safety 
 
It is a requirement to wear and maintain personnel protective equipment and safety equipment 
whilst in areas requiring such equipment.  

 
5.6. Drug and Alcohol Testing 
 
The  employer  has  a  drug  and  alcohol  policy  including  random  testing.  The  Policy  may  be 
invoked during the life of the agreement.  
 
5.7. Consultation  
 
The Parties to the Agreement will be bound by the Consultation Term in Schedule 1.  
 
5.8. Flexibility  
 
The Parties to the Agreement will be bound by the Flexibility Term in Schedule 2.  
 
6.  CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE RATES. 
 
6.1.   Classification Structure and Wage Rates 

The  wage  rates  for  each  classification  are  as  prescribed  below.  The  rates  compensate  for  all 
special skills and/or disabilities and/or special rates, including annual leave loading associated 
with the industry of the employer. (Rates are given per hour for ordinary hours of work).   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Classification 

Labourer 
Skilled Labourer 
Experienced  Earthmoving  Plant 
Operator  (e.g.  Grader,  Scraper, 
Excavator, Loader) 

Permanent Wage 
Rate – Per Hour  

Casual Wage 
Rate – Per Hour  

$26.00 
$28.00 

$30.99 
$33.37 

$29.60 

$35.26 

 
These  wage  rates  will  increase  in  the  years  2020,  2021,  2022  and  2023  by  the  percentage 
increase awarded by the National Wage Review and operative from the date of such increase by 
the National Wage Review. 
 
6.2. Allowances 
 
6.2.1.  Fares and Travelling Allowance 
 
The  agreed  allowance  for  fares  and  travelling  will  be  $23.00  per  day  where  the  employee 
commences and ceases on site.  This allowance will not apply to anyone who is provided with a 
vehicle or transport to and from the job by the employer.  
 
6.2.2.  First Aid Allowance 
 
A qualified employee appointed by the employer to perform first aid duty shall be paid $16.00 
per week in addition to ordinary rates.  
 
6.3. Superannuation 
 
The  Employer  shall  pay  superannuation  in  accordance  with  the  prescriptions  of  the 
Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (Cth) as amended from time to time into 

the employee’s nominated superannuation fund. This will satisfy the statutory requirements for 
occupational  superannuation.  If  the  employee  does  not  nominate  a  fund,  the  employer  will 
nominate a default fund. The employer shall ensure that superannuation contributions pursuant 
to this clause are made into an eligible choice fund and that such fund is a fund that offers a 
MySuper product or is an exempt public sector scheme. 
 
6.4. Salary Sacrifice  
 
It  is  available  by  agreement  between  an  employee  and  the  employer  to  sacrifice  part  of  an 
employee’s  wages  prescribed  in  clause  6.1  in  exchange  for  another  benefit  such  as 
superannuation. The amount of salary sacrificed will equal the gross benefit to the employee. In 
circumstances where there is taxation arising from the provision of the benefit then this will be 
added to the gross value of the benefit to the employee. 
 
6.5. Portable Long Service Leave and WorkCover Provision 
 
The  Company  shall  ensure  that  the  requirements  of  the  Building  and  Construction  Industry 
(Portable  Long  Service  Leave)  Act  and  the  WorkCover  Queensland  Act  shall  be  met,  and 
WorkCover provisions shall be paid for employees. 
 
6.6. Payment of Wages  
 
The employees will be paid weekly by electronic funds transfer. 
 
7.  Hours of Work and Overtime 
 
7.1. Ordinary Hours 
 
The ordinary hours of work shall be an average of 38 hours per week, to be worked between the 
hours of 6:00am and 6:00pm Monday to Friday. The work cycle will be developed on a project 
by  project  basis  after  consideration  of  the  project  needs  and  the  employee  needs.  The  daily 
ordinary hours shall not exceed eight (8) hours per day.  
 
The work cycle may be altered by agreement to suit project requirements. It will be available to 
work alternate hours of work that provide an average of 38 hours a week over a nominated work 
cycle.  These  cycles  may  include  weekends  to  suit  project  requirements  and/or  implement 
compacted work cycles such as: 
 
• 
• 
• 
 
The weekend penalties for ordinary hours will be time and a half for the first three (3) hours and 
double time thereafter on Saturday; and double time on Sunday. 
 
7.2. Overtime/ Additional Hours 
 
7.2.1.  Rate  
 

14 days on, 7 days off; 
10 days on, 4 days off; and 
Even time rosters. 

It is a requirement that the employee will work reasonable additional hours in excess of their 
ordinary hours. All time worked in excess of the nominated work cycle hours or outside of the 
span of ordinary hours of work shall be paid as overtime at the following rates: 
 

•  The first two (2) hours of overtime in each week, Monday to Friday will be paid at the 

rate prescribed in Clause 6.1.  

•  All time worked in excess of 40 hours per week (38 ordinary hours and 2 additional hours 
at the ordinary time rate), Monday to Friday, shall be paid at the rate of time and a half for 
the first three hours and double time thereafter. 

•  Saturday  (until  midday)  at  the  rate  of  time  and  a  half  for  the  first  three  (3)  hours  and 

double time thereafter. 

•  Saturday (after midday) and Sunday at the rate of double time. 

 
Employees will be entitled to a payment for a minimum of four (4) hours’ work for all weekend 
and public holiday work performed.   
 
7.2.2.  Recall 
 
An  employee  recalled  to  work  overtime  after  leaving  the  site  on  any  day  Monday  to  Friday 
(whether notified before or after leaving the site) shall be paid for a minimum of four  hours’ 
work at the appropriate rate for each time the employee is recalled. 
 
Except in the case of unforeseen circumstances arising, the employees shall not be required to 
work the full four hours if the job the employee was recalled to perform is completed within a 
shorter period. 
 
This overtime shall not be regarded as overtime for the purpose of Clause 7.2.1 when the actual 
time worked is less than four hours on the recall or on each of the recalls.   
 
7.2.3.  Rest Period 
 
An employee who works overtime shall have at least a ten hour rest period between the end of 
ordinary hours on any one day and start of ordinary hours on the next day. 
 
If on the instructions of the employer, the employee resumes or continues work without having 
had 10  consecutive hours off duty, the employee shall be paid double time until he or she is 
released from duty for ten hour  rest period. The employee shall then be entitled to be absent 
without loss of pay for ordinary working hours occurring during the ten hour rest period.  
 
In  the  case  of  shift  workers,  eight  hours  shall  be  substituted  for  ten  hours  when  overtime  is 
worked: 

  (a) for the purpose of changing shift rosters; or 

(b) to provide coverage for a shift worker who has not reported for work; or 
(c) where employees have mutually agreed to swap shifts 

 
 
 
7.3. Meal Breaks and Rest Pauses 
 
There will be a meal break and a rest pause for each shift or day where a minimum of five hours 
is worked Monday to Friday. The meal break shall be thirty minutes duration and will be unpaid. 
The rest pause will be twenty minutes duration and paid. 
 

 

An  employee  required  to  work  overtime  on  a  Saturday,  Sunday  or  rostered  day  off  shall  be 
allowed a 20-minute paid crib break after five hours worked if the work is scheduled to continue 
after the break. Payment for the crib break shall be at the prevailing overtime rate. A second 
meal break of 20 minutes shall be due if working 8 hours or  more and paid at the prevailing 
overtime rate. Subsequent paid meal breaks are due every 4 hours 
 
An employee may be required to change the meal break to suit the requirements of the employer 
or client. In these circumstances, the meal break will be taken at another time during the day to 
suit the continuity of work. An employee cannot change their meal break without prior approval 
from their supervisor. 
 
7.4. Shift Work 

Shift  work  meaning  ordinary  hours  worked  outside  or  partly  outside  of  the  ordinary  span  of 
hours of at least 5 consecutive shifts may be worked to suit the requirements of a project. The 
requirement  to  work  shift  work  will  only  occur  after  consultation  with  the  appropriate 
employees. 
 
An  Afternoon  Shift  is  defined  as  a  roster  whereby  the  ordinary  hours  of  work  commence 
between 10:00am and 8:00pm.  
 
A  Night  Shift  is  defined  as  a  roster  whereby  the  ordinary  hours  of  work  commence  between 
8:00pm and 6:00am.  
 
Day work (i.e. work commencing between 6:00am and 10:00am) is not shift work. 
 
Shift work shall be paid as follows: 
 

•  Where less than five (5) continuous afternoon or nights or a rostered 38 hours per week 

are worked, a 50% loading shall apply on the ordinary hours of work only; 

•  Where  five  (5)  continuous  afternoon  or  nights  or  more  per  week  are  worked,  a  15% 

loading shall apply on the ordinary hours of work only; 

•  Where a non-rotating shift roster is worked for a four (4) week period or more, a 30% 

loading shall apply on the ordinary hours of work only. 

 
All overtime worked by shift workers Monday to Friday will be paid at the rate of double time. 
The  overtime  penalties  as  prescribed  in  Clause  7.2.1  shall  apply  to  all hours  worked  on  shift 
work on a Saturday or Sunday. 
 
7.5. Wet Weather 
 
During  periods  of  inclement  weather  that  prevents  work  from  being  performed  on  site,  the 
employer, where practical, will transfer employees to an alternative site not so affected, or to the 
employer's depot/yard to perform maintenance, service-type duties or training.  
 
Where  this  is  not  practical,  all  permanent  employees  shall  be  entitled  to  payment  by  the 
employer for ordinary time lost through wet weather and the effects of wet weather for up to 32 
hours in each calendar month (non-cumulative) subject to an employee being ready willing and 
able to work. The number of hours credited to any employee under this clause shall be reduced 
by the number of hours for which payment is made in respect of lost time through wet weather.  
If an employee is required to work in the rain without cover the employee shall be paid single 

 

time in addition to the prevailing rate for all work performed. The additional payment shall not 
apply to employees working in dry situations or working undercover. 
 
8.  Conditions of Employment 
 
8.1. Annual Leave 

8.1.1.  Entitlement 
 
A permanent employee shall be entitled to be paid annual leave at the rate of four (4) weeks of 
ordinary time for each year of continuous service consistent with the Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth).  
The period of annual leave shall be exclusive of any public holiday that occurs during the period.  
 
Notwithstanding  the  above,  an  employee  defined  as  a  shift  worker  for  the  purposes  of  the 
National Employment Standards (NES) will be entitled to an additional week of annual leave as 
provided for in the NES. A shift worker shall mean an employee engaged to work in a system of 
consecutive  shifts  throughout  the  24  hours  of  each  of  at  least  six  consecutive  days  without 
interruption (except during breakdown or meal breaks or due to unavoidable causes beyond the 
control of the employer) and who is regularly rostered to work those shifts. 
 
At the written agreement between the Employer and employee, annual leave may be taken as a 
payment in lieu of leave subject to the following; 
 

o  A balance of four (4) weeks leave must be maintained 
o  The payment in lieu will be equal to the pay for that period of time as prescribed 

in Clause 8.1.2.  

 
8.1.2.  Calculation of Annual Leave Pay 
 
Annual leave shall be paid at the employee’s ordinary weekly wage rate for ordinary hours for 
the period of annual leave. 
 
8.1.3.  Taking of Annual Leave 
 
The  taking  of  annual  leave  will  be  subject  to  mutual  agreement  and  at  times  convenient  to 
requirements of projects.  
 
The employer by giving reasonable notice may require employees to take annual leave for an 
annual shutdown. 
 
8.1.4.  Excess Leave Accrual 

Where an employee has an excess accrual of annual leave (more than 8 weeks paid annual leave 
accrued or 10 weeks for shift workers), the employer may direct the employee to take excess 
leave subject to the following:  
 
1.  The employer must first genuinely try to reach an agreement with an employee to take 

excess annual leave.  

2.  Where no agreement can be reached, the employer may direct the employee in writing to 

take one or more periods of paid annual leave subject to the following circumstances: 

 

 

i.  The  employee’s  remaining  accrued  entitlement  to  paid  annual  leave  after  the 

requirement to take excessive leave must be more than 6 weeks; 

ii.  The taking of leave must not provide that the employee take a period of paid annual 

leave of less than one week; 

iii.  The taking of leave must not provide for the employee to take a period of paid annual 
leave beginning less than 8 weeks, or more than 12 months, after the direction/notice is 
given; and 

iv.  Must  not  be  inconsistent  with  any  leave  arrangement  agreed  by  the  employer  and 

employee. 

 

 
Notwithstanding the above, the employer must not unreasonably refuse to agree to a request by 
the employee to take paid annual leave. Where agreement is not reached between the employer 
and the employee, an employee who has an excessive leave accrual may require an employer to 
grant paid annual leave on the basis that they have accrued such excess leave for more than a 
period  of  6  months  and  have  satisfied  the  above  conditions  outlined  in  sub-clauses  1  and  2 
above.  
 
8.1.5.  Payment on Termination 
 
If an employee is terminated after the end of a year of employment, the employee is deemed to 
have been given any untaken leave from the date of termination and shall be paid for that leave 
accordingly. The employee shall also be paid for any public holidays falling within the period of 
leave in addition to payment for the leave. 
 
If an employee is terminated before the end of a full year of employment, the employee shall be 
paid pro-rata annual leave based on the period of service. 
 
8.2. Personal/Carers Leave  
 
8.2.1.  Entitlement 
 
A permanent employee shall accrue paid personal/carers leave at the rate of 10 days for each 
year of continuous service consistent with the Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth). Personal/carers leave 
will be paid at the employee’s ordinary rate of pay for ordinary hours for the period of leave.   
 
Personal/carers leave shall not apply for illnesses or injury covered by worker’s compensation. 
An employee shall not be entitled to be paid personal/carers leave for more ordinary hours than 
the employee would have worked on that day. 
 
At  the  written  initiation  of  the  employee  and  the  agreement  of  the  Employer,  accrued  paid 
personal/carers  leave  may  be  taken  as  a  payment  in  lieu  of  the  leave  provided  the  employee 
maintains a balance of a minimum of 15 days leave remaining. 
 
8.2.2.  Payment 
 
Personal/carers  leave  shall  be  paid  at  the  employee’s  ordinary  weekly  wage  rate  for  ordinary 
hours and the employee must meet the following requirements: 
 

• 
• 
• 
• 

Have a credit entitlement to a period of leave, 
Notify the employer of the absence as soon as possible, 
Advise the employer how long the absence on personal/carers leave is likely to be, 
Provide evidence satisfactory to the employer of the illness or injury. An employee 
absent on personal/carers leave for more than two consecutive days or on more than 
two single days in any year may be required by the employer to produce a medical 
certificate from a qualified medical practitioner stating the nature of the illness and 
the period the employee will be unable to work. 

 

8.2.3.  Deduction from Personal/Carers Leave Credits 
 
Personal/Carers leave debits will be equivalent to the ordinary hours an employee would have 
worked had they not been on personal/carers leave. 
 
8.2.4.  Personal/Carers Leave Cumulative 
 
Personal/Carers leave shall accumulate from year to year.  
 
8.2.5.  Continuity of Employment 
 
Continuity of employment for personal/carers leave accumulation is not broken by absence from 
work on leave granted by the employer; or the termination or standing down of the employee for 
any period not exceeding 3 months, provided that the employee is re-employed by the employer. 
But such period of absence or stand down will not count as service. 
 
8.2.6.  Carers Leave 
 
An employee may use accrued personal/carers days as carers leave to tend to the care or support 
to a member of the employee's immediate family, or a member of the employee's household. The 
leave  will  be  subject  to  the  employee  providing  reasonable  proof  of  the  need  for  the  use  of 
carer’s leave. In circumstances where the employee has exhausted all of the paid leave, a further 
two (2) days unpaid leave may be taken per occasion. Casual employees shall be entitled to a 
maximum of two (2) unpaid days per occasion.  
 
8.3. Parental Leave 
 
Employees will be entitled to Parental Leave in accordance with the Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth). 
 
8.4. Compassionate Leave   
 
A  permanent  employee  may  take  compassionate  leave  when  a  member  of  the  employee’s 
immediate family or household member: contracts or develops a personal injury or illness that 
poses a serious threat to their life; or dies. Compassionate leave shall be a maximum of two (2) 
paid days per occasion. Compassionate leave for casual employees shall be a maximum of two 
(2) unpaid days per occasion. 
 
The following are members of an employee’s immediate family: 
 

a.  a spouse or de-facto partner, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild or sibling of the 

employee; or 

b.  a child, parent, grandparent, grandchild or sibling of a spouse or de-facto partner of 

the employee.  

 
8.5. Community Service Leave 
 
Employees will be entitled to Community Service Leave in accordance with the Fair Work Act 
2009 (Cth).  
 
8.6. Long Service Leave 
 
All  employees  shall  be  entitled  to  long  service  leave  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  State 
Legislation.  The  employer  will  ensure  that  any  registration  necessary  for  the  purposes  of 
portable long service schemes will be undertaken. 
 
8.7.  Public Holidays 

All permanent employees shall be entitled to the following Public Holidays without loss of pay; 
 

Christmas Day,  
Boxing Day, 
New Years Day, 
Australia Day, 
Good Friday, 
Easter Saturday, 
Easter Sunday, 
Easter Monday, 
Anzac Day  
Labour Day, 
Queens Birthday, 
A  public  holiday  prescribed  by  legislation  for  the  district  and/or  state  that  the 
employee is working in (eg Show Day). 

 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

 

Any employee required to work on a public holiday nominated herein shall be paid at the rate of 
double time and a half for all time so worked. 
 
It  will  be  available  for  the  employer  and  a  majority  of  the  affected  employees  by  mutual 
agreement to substitute the nominated public holiday for another day and the prescriptions of 
this clause will apply to the substituted day. 
 
Provided a weekly employee who has been employed continuously for two weeks and who: is 
terminated  by  the  employer  or  stood  down  during  December;  and  is  re-employed  by  the 
employer at any time before the end of January in the following year; shall be paid for the public 
holidays of Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day when those days occur during the 
period of the termination or standing down. 
 
9.   Dispute Resolution Procedure 
 
The  Parties  to  this  Agreement  shall  observe  the  following  Industrial  Dispute  Resolution 
procedure in respect of disputes relating to the operation of this Agreement and the application 
of the National Employment Standards;  

 

 

 

The  Employer  or  employee  may  appoint  a  representative  at  any  of  the  steps  of  the  dispute 
process. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Parties  to  the  dispute  will  first  meet  and  confer  by  holding  discussions  between  the 
employee/s concerned and an immediate supervisor/s.  
 
If the matter is not resolved at such a meeting the parties will arrange further discussions 
involving more senior management as appropriate.  
 
If the matter remains unresolved, the Employer or employee may refer it to a more senior 
level of management for consideration.  
 
In the event of the matter remaining unresolved, either party may refer the matter to the 
Fair Work Commission for conciliation.  
 

5.  Where conciliation of the matter is unsuccessful, either party may refer the matter to the 
Fair  Work Commission for arbitration. Any decision, determination or outcome of the 
Fair  Work  Commission  shall  be  consistent  with  the  Code  for  the  Tendering  and 
Performance of Building Work 2016.  

Except  in  situations  where  there  is  a  perceived  immediate  and  significant  threat  to  employee 
health and safety, work will continue and consideration of the needs of the business will remain a 
priority.

 

SIG  ATURE PROVl SIONS 

Signed for and on behalf of 

Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd 

S ignec.l  _  _.4=~.....;_ _ _ _____ _ 

Name  ~€\JJN 

'JoNE S 

Capacity to Sign D1Q,Ecroe.  ~ ~AtJI \-\1.2E 

Address Po  &::>~ 204  NEAAclL  &y) 1.\-'2.  I I 

Name of Witness (print)  l(a:lW1r'.'l(  ~. -J.-1,.. 
Address  l ! 19  Sfeve05  &t- J-.Jeracf /:J.,JJ</ZI( 

Date 

IQ 

fYJal'  20 

Signed For and on bchnlf of the 

Employees of Adept Plant Ilire Pty Ltd 

  
 

Name _ _  Jan Croxson. _ _____ _ _ _  _ 

CapadLy  Lo Sign _ _ 

l'lant Operator _ ___ ___ _  _ 

Address _I Glenn Court, Worongary, QLD 4213 _ _ ________  _ 

Witness - -~.J----=-·

· ______ _ 

Name of Witness (print) _ Katherine Smiih _ _ ____  _ 

Address _1/ 19 Stevens Street, Nerang, QLD 42 ll _ ___ ___  _ 

Date 

17 MARCH 2020 --------

Schedule 1 
 
Consultation Term 
 
(1)  This term applies if the employer:  

 

a)  has  made  a  definite  decision  to  introduce  a  major  change  to  production,  program, 
organisation, structure or technology in relation to its enterprise that is likely to have a 
significant effect on the employees; or  

b)  proposes  to  introduce  a  change  to  the  regular  roster  or  ordinary  hours  of  work  of 

employees.  

 
Major change  
 
(2)  For a major change referred to in paragraph (1)(a):  

the  employer  must  notify  the  relevant  employees  of  the  decision  to  introduce  the 
major change; and  

b)  subclauses (3) to (9) apply.  

(3)  The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the procedures in 

 
a) 

 

this term.  
 
If:  

(4) 
 

a)  a relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative for the 

purposes of consultation; and  
the employee or employees advise the employer of the identity of the representative;  

b) 

 
the employer must recognise the representative.  
 
(5)  As soon as practicable after making its decision, the employer must:  

 
a)  discuss with the relevant employees:  

 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  measures the  employer is taking to  avert or mitigate the adverse effect  of the 

the introduction of the change; and  
the effect the change is likely to have on the employees; and  

change on the employees; and  

(i) 

 
for the purposes of the discussion--provide, in writing, to the relevant employees:  

 
all  relevant  information  about  the  change  including  the  nature  of  the  change 
proposed; and  
information about the expected effects of the change on the employees; and  

(ii) 
(iii)  any other matters likely to affect the employees.  

b) 

 

(6)  However, the employer is not required to disclose confidential or commercially sensitive 

information to the relevant employees.  
 

c) 

d) 
e) 
f) 
g) 

 

(7)  The  employer  must  give  prompt  and  genuine  consideration  to  matters  raised  about  the 

major change by the relevant employees.  
 
If  a  term  in  this  agreement  provides  for  a  major  change  to  production,  program, 
organisation,  structure  or  technology  in  relation  to  the  enterprise  of  the  employer,  the 
requirements set out in paragraph (2)(a) and subclauses (3) and (5) are taken not to apply.  
 
In this term, a major change is likely to have a significant effect on employees if it results 
in:  

(8) 

(9) 

 

the termination of the employment of employees; or  

a) 
b)  major change to the composition, operation or size of the employer's workforce or to 

the skills required of employees; or  
the  elimination  or  diminution  of  job  opportunities  (including  opportunities  for 
promotion or tenure); or  
the alteration of hours of work; or  
the need to retrain employees; or  
the need to relocate employees to another workplace; or  
the restructuring of jobs.  

 
Change to regular roster or ordinary hours of work  

(10)  For a change referred to in paragraph (1)(b):  

 
a) 
b)  subclauses (11) to (15) apply.  
 

this term.  
 

(12)  If:  
 

the employer must notify the relevant employees of the proposed change; and  

(11)  The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the procedures in 

a)  a relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative for the 

purposes of consultation; and  
the employee or employees advise the employer of the identity of the representative;  

b) 

 
the employer must recognise the representative.  
 
(13)  As soon as practicable after proposing to introduce the change, the employer must:  

 
a)  discuss with the relevant employees the introduction of the change; and  
b) 
for the purposes of the discussion--provide to the relevant employees:  
 
(i) 

all  relevant  information  about  the  change,  including  the  nature  of  the  change; 
and  
information about what the employer reasonably believes will be the effects of 
the change on the employees; and  
information about any other matters that the employer reasonably believes are 
likely to affect the employees; and  

(ii) 

(iii) 

 

c) 

invite  the  relevant  employees  to  give  their  views  about  the  impact  of  the  change 
(including any impact in relation to their family or caring responsibilities).  

 
(14)  However, the employer is not required to disclose confidential or commercially sensitive 

information to the relevant employees.  

 
(15)  The  employer  must  give  prompt  and  genuine  consideration  to  matters  raised  about  the 

(16)  In this term relevant employees means the employees who may be affected by a change 

change by the relevant employees.  
 

referred to in subclause (1).  

 

Schedule 2 
 
Flexibility Term 
 
(1) 

 (b) 

An Employer and employee covered by this Enterprise Agreement may agree to make an 
individual flexibility arrangement to vary the effect of terms of the Agreement if:  
 (a) 

arrangements about when work is performed;  
overtime rates;  
penalty rates;  
allowances;  
leave loading; and  

the Agreement deals with 1 or more of the following matters:  
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
the  arrangement  meets  the  genuine  needs  of  the  Employer  and  employee  in 
relation to 1 or more of the matters mentioned in paragraph (a); and  
the arrangement is genuinely agreed to by the Employer and employee.  

 (c) 
 
The Employer must ensure that the terms of the individual flexibility arrangement:  
(a) 
 (b) 
(c) 

are about permitted matters under section 172 of the Fair Work Act 2009 ; and  
are not unlawful terms under section 194 of the Fair Work Act 2009 ; and  
result in the employee being better off overall than the employee would be if no 
arrangement was made.  

 
The Employer must ensure that the individual flexibility arrangement:  
 (a) 
 (b) 
  (c) 

is in writing; and  
includes the name of the Employer and employee; and  
is signed by the Employer and employee and if the employee is under 18 years of 
age, signed by a parent or guardian of the employee; and  
includes details of:  
 (i) 

the  terms  of  the  Enterprise  Agreement  that  will  be  varied  by  the 
arrangement; and  
how the arrangement will vary the effect of the terms; and  
how the employee will be better off overall in relation to the terms and 
conditions of his or her employment as a result of the arrangement; and  

states the day on which the arrangement commences.  

 (e) 
 
The Employer must give the employee a copy of the individual flexibility arrangement 
within 14 days after it is agreed to.  

 (ii) 
 (iii) 

 (d) 

The Employer or employee may terminate the individual flexibility arrangement:  
(a) 

by  giving  no  more  than  28  days  written  notice  to  the  other  party  to  the 
arrangement; or  
if the Employer and employee agree in writing at any time. 

(b) 
 

(2) 

 (3) 

(4) 

 
(5) 

 
 

 

IN THE FAIR WORK  COMMISSION 
 
FWC Matter  No.:  
AG2020/738 
 
Applicant: 
 
Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd 
 
Section 185 – Application for approval of a single enterprise agreement 
 

Undertaking- Section 190 

 
I,  Kevin  Jones, Director for Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd give the following undertakings  with 
respect to the Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd Enterprise Agreement 2020 ("the Agreement"): 
 
I have the authority given to me by Adept Plant Hire Pty Ltd to provide this undertaking in 
relation to the application before the Fair Work Commission. 
 

1.  Clause 5.1.2 – Engagement  

 
The Applicant undertakes to apply the following in addition to Clause 5.1.2 – Engagement: 
 

All hours worked in excess of a part-time employee’s agreed weekly or daily hours 
shall be paid at the applicable overtime rates in Clause 7.2.1. 

 
These  undertakings  are  provided  on  the  basis  of  issues  raised  by  the  Fair  Work 
Commission in the application before the Fair Work Commission.  
 

 

Signature 

Date: 28 April 2020 

 

1 

